docs/get-started/wifi-setup.rst, before:

WiFi Setup
==========

There are many ways to add Wifi to your CS. We will cover three methods here. You may need to know a little bit about networking, but if you can get your phone and your Roku to connect to your network, you can do this. 

You should be able to apply what you learn here to using other boards, but you can ask us for help using any of the contact links on our `Support Page <../support/index.html>`_ if you have a question.

Note that you can click on any of the images to make them larger.

For a video to help you click below.



   .. raw:: html
      
      <iframe width="336" height="189" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/N6TWR7fIl0A" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Why Use WiFi?
-------------

With the base Command Station (CS) consisting of an Arduino Mega and an Arduino Motor Shield, you must use a serial cable to connect to a computer to run JMRI, to our WebThrottle-EX, or to other controller. The controller is what sends commands to the CS to run your trains and control your accessories.

You can already go wireless when using software like JMRI and WiThrottle. But this requires you to connect your CS to a computer. With CommandStation-EX WiFi, you can connect directly to your CS from any WiThrottle capable throttle, such as the Engine Driver phone app.

Compatible Boards
-----------------

Most boards based on the ESP-8266 should work with DCC++ EX. However, with all the variations and software versions out there, we've compiled this list of known tested, working hardware. We will add more over time.


* `Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield (recommended) <https://www.makerfabs.com/esp8266-wifi-shield.html>`_
* `Duinopeak ESP-8266 WiFi Expansion Board (plus an ESP-01 or 01s) <https://usa.banggood.com/Duinopeak-ESP8266-ESP-01-WiFi-Expansion-Board-Shield-Without-ESP8266-Module-p-1391961.html?cur_warehouse=CN>`_
* `ESP-01 or ESP-01S Board (This is not a shield. You will need to use jumpers) <https://www.amzn.com/B00O34AGSU/>`_

What you will need
------------------

* A Command Station (CS) made from a **Mega** and an Arduino Motor Shield
* One of the above WiFi boards
* Two (2) Male to Female Jumpers (plus 3 more if you are using an ESP-01 or 01s)

Quick links
-----------

* Jump to :ref:`Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield (recommended)`
* Jump to :ref:`Duinopeak ESP-8266 WiFi Expansion Board`
* Jump to :ref:`ESP-01 and ESP-01s`

Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield (recommended)
--------------------------------------------

We like this board here at DCC++ EX. It is simple, inexpensive, easy to use, and it works.

.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_jumpers1.jpg
   :alt: Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 1** - Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield

Installing the board follows the same procedure in the previous section on assembly. Start by noting the tab end of the board and align it with the tab end of the motor board. You will stack this board on top to make a three board stack.

Remove the plastic jumpers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Note the two black plastic jumpers, we need to remove both of them. You can pull them off with your fingers or needle nose pliers and either stick them in a drawer or move them to the side by having them connect via one side to any of the row of Rx pins. The other end of the connector will just hang out over the Wifi Board.


.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_pins.jpg
   :alt: Remove the plastic jumpers
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 2** - Remove the plastic jumpers

Align the boards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Turn the board so that the tab end is to the left and the power connectors on the other boards are to the right. You will be looking at the left side of the shield. Align it so that the pins align starting with the tab end of the boards. The Tx, Rx, 2, 3, 4, 6, 6, 7 pins on the Motor Shield line up with the 0 through 7 pins on the Makerfabs WiFi Board. Start to get this row partially seated so all the pins are lined up with the holes. Note that there are more holes than pins. The two header holes closest to the power connectors will be empty.


.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_seat1.jpg
   :alt: Get the left side pins aligned
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 3** - Get the left side pins aligned

Seat the boards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now do the the other side. If all the pins are straight and lined up properly, hold both sides of the board and press it together gently (Figure 4). Note that the pins are quite long and will not go all the way into the header. You shoud have even more of the pins showing between the bottom of the WiFi board and the top of the header on the Motor Board than between the Motor Board and the Arduino. This is normal (Figure 5).


.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_seat2a.jpg
   :alt: Get the right side pins aligned
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 4** - Get the right side pins aligned

.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_seat_full.jpg
   :alt: Fully Seated Boards
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 5** - Fully Seated Boards

Install the jumper wires
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We now need to connect The Transmit (Tx) and Receive (Rx) pins on the ESP-8266 to the Rx and Tx pins for Serial1 on the Mega. The mega has one serial port connected to the USB port and then 3 extra ones we can access from pins on the board. You can think of Tx as "talking" and Rx as "listening". That will help you remember that if one thing is talking, the other has to use its ears to listen. So we must connect the Tx of the WiFi board to Rx1 on the Mega and the Rx pin on the WiFi Board to Tx1 on the Mega.

There are three rows of pins on the Makerfabs WiFi shield. The middle pins each connect to one of the first 8 pins on the header. Pin 0 goes to header pin 0, pin 1 goes to header pin 2, and so on. We aren't going to need those. With the plastic jumpers removed, nothing will be connected to any of those pins on the WiFi Board and therefore not connected down to the Mega through the Motor Shield.

ALL of the pins in the row marked Tx (the row closest to the header) are connected to the Tx pin of the ESP-8266. ALL of the pins in the row marked Rx (the row closes to the middle of the board) are connected to the Rx pin on the ESP-8266

Take a jumper wire and connect it to any one of the Tx pins on the WiFi Board and connect the other end to the Rx1 pin on the mega (pin 19)

Take a second jumper wire and connect it to any one of the Rx pins on the Wifi Board and connect the other end to Tx1 on the mega (pin 18)

.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_jumpers2.png
   :alt: Figure 6 - Install the Jumper wires
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 6** - Install the jumper wires

.. note:: The screenprinting on the board may make it hard to see which pins are 18 and 19, they may not be aligned exactly. Count the pins if you need to to make sure that you are using the correct ones.

Duinopeak ESP-8266 WiFi Expansion Board
---------------------------------------

This board is designed as an expansion/prototyping board as well as a WiFi board. Tinkerers that want the extra space on the board to solder your expriements can have a party on the PCB. The only caveat with this board is that it cannot easily be connected in "passthrough mode" if you needed to use the Arduino to test a direct connection to the on board ESP-8266. It does not like the USB cable connected at the same time as a signal is on the Tx/Rx pins. This is a minor issue and does not affect normal operation since you won't have anything connected to the USB port.

.. note:: This is just a carrier board for an ESP-01 or 01s. You will still need an ESP-01s to stick onto this board. See the next section.

.. image:: ../_static/images/duinopeak.jpg
   :alt: Duinopeak WiFi Board
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 7** - Duinopeak WiFi Board

Install the Shield
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install this board on your Arduino, follow the same steps as above with the added step of installing and ESP-01s onto the board:

* Remove or place the plastic pin jumpers to the side
* Align and seat the board
* Use wire jumpers to connect any Rx pin to Tx1 on the Mega and any Tx pin to Rx1 on the Mega
* Seat an ESP-01s onto the 8 pin header on the board oriented with the white ESP-01 outline

ESP-01 and ESP-01s
-------------------

This is the board that started it all. It fueled the WiFi revolution in small devices. In fact, this little board is actually a microcontroller that is more powerful than the Arduno Uno! The difference between the 01 and the 01S is primarily that there is more memory on the 01-"S". Since the 01 version has been retired, any new board you get should be the 01s, but either will work.


.. image:: ../_static/images/esp-01s_2.jpg
   :alt: ESP-01s
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 8** - ESP-01s

Install the Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Below is a wiring diagram for connecting the ESP-8266 to the Arduino. For clarity, the image does not show the motor board already on top of the Mega, but since the headers connect all the pins together vertically, you can find the same pins on the motor board to get the 3.3V and Gnd to power the ESP-8266.


.. image:: ../_static/images/esp8266_mega.jpg
   :alt: ESP-8266 Wiring to a Mega
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 9** - Wiring and ESP-01s to a Mega

**Wiring**

.. code-block::

   Arduino   ESP8266
   3.3V -----> Vcc
   3.3V -----> CH_PD
   Gnd  -----> Gnd
   Tx   -----> Rx
   Rx   -----> Tx


In order to connect both Vcc and CH_PD to the 3.3V output of the arduino, you can make a "Y" shaped jumper or put the ESP-01s on a small circuit board and wire it that way. Below are little boards you can buy called "ESP-01 Breakout Board" or "ESP-01 Breadboard adapter". Some even have a voltage regulator so you can use the 5V power from the Mega instead of 3.3V

.. note:: About current requirements: While we at DCC-EX Labs have had success with running the ESP-01s off the 3.3V Mega power supply, this is at the limit of what the Mega can supply. The Mega 3.3V regulator is only rated for 200mA. The ESP can exceed this in short bursts. If you want to be safe, you can power a 5V to 3.3V regulator from the 5V supply or find another way to provide clean, regulated 3.3V to the ESP


.. image:: ../_static/images/esp-01_adapter.jpg
   :alt: ESP-01s Adapters
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 10** - ESP-01 Breakout Boards

.. warning:: The ESP-8266 chips are designed for 3.3V. DO NOT TRY TO CONNECT THEM TO 5V!! While they cannot handle 5V for power, their GPIO pins are 5V tolerant. Because of this, you don't need any additional circuitry. However, to be safe, you can use a small `level shifter board <https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/SparkFun/BOB-12009?qs=WyAARYrbSnb%252BGYLWggQnjQ%3D%3D&gclid=Cj0KCQiAzZL-BRDnARIsAPCJs73SnsmU-CTIk9V0XE6qjxY2WKlnxI0sLhT_rY5MYTbIOBmHne50Eh4aAm5ZEALw_wcB>`_ or use one of the breakout board like the one above and to the right that has a 3.3V regulator and level shifters for the Tx and Rx pins.

Install the Software
--------------------

If you already have the CS sofware running and are just adding WiFi, there is nothing further you need to do if you want to use the CS as an Access Point (AP) and connect a WiThrottle compatible CAB (Engine Driver). The next time you power up the CS, it will automatically find your WiFi board and what port it is connected to. See the detailed instructions here: `WiFi Configuration <../advanced-setup/wifi-config.html>`_

If you are setting up your Command Station for the first time, or are making changes click on the basic setup, navigate to `Command Station Downloads <../download/commandstation.html>`_ to load firmware onto the CS.

Commit message:

Frightrisk dec28 (#22)
* Add to wifi config advanced page

* Fix formatting on command reference page

* Fix links

* Add page for IBT_2

* add wangtongze image and more words

* Add Wang Tongze video link to wifi-boards

* Add stationary decoder address conversion table to references

* Add new controllers section and lots of updates

* Fix duplicate header links

* edit get started index

* Fix index menu

* Try changing levels and assembly files to fix menu

* More changes to try and get menus working

* Add throttle stuff

* Add more motor shields

* Add motor board images

* Add romeo v2 motorboard pic

* Adjust motor board page formatting

* Change Jumpers for DFRobot board

* Finish DFRobot pins config

* Add links to motor board install

* Reverse pin assignments for DFRobot motor board

* Add description to DIY motor board

* Add line feeds to lists

* More format changes to motor board page

docs/get-started/wifi-setup.rst, after:

WiFi Setup
==========

Using WiFi is optional, if you wish to simply use your computer connected via a USB cable to to the Command Station, you can skip ahead to the next page.

There are many ways to add Wifi to your CS. We will cover three methods here. You may need to know a little bit about networking, but if you can get your phone and your Roku to connect to your network, you can do this. 

You should be able to apply what you learn here to using other boards, but you can ask us for help using any of the contact links on our `Support Page <../support/index.html>`_ if you have a question.

Note that you can click on any of the images to make them larger.

For a video to help you click below.



   .. raw:: html
      
      <iframe width="336" height="189" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/N6TWR7fIl0A" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Why Use WiFi?
-------------

With the base Command Station (CS) consisting of an Arduino Mega and an Arduino Motor Shield, you must use a USB  cable to connect to a computer to run JMRI or our WebThrottle-EX, or to connect to another controller. The controller is what sends commands to the CS to run your trains and control your accessories.

You can already go wireless when using software like JMRI and WiThrottle. But this requires you to connect your CS to a computer. With CommandStation-EX WiFi, you can connect directly to your CS from any WiThrottle capable throttle, such as the Engine Driver phone app.

Compatible Boards
-----------------

Most boards based on the ESP-8266 should work with DCC++ EX. However, with all the variations and software versions out there, we've compiled this list of known tested, working hardware. We will add more over time.


* `Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield (recommended) <https://www.makerfabs.com/esp8266-wifi-shield.html>`_
* `Duinopeak ESP-8266 WiFi Expansion Board (plus an ESP-01 or 01s) <https://usa.banggood.com/Duinopeak-ESP8266-ESP-01-WiFi-Expansion-Board-Shield-Without-ESP8266-Module-p-1391961.html?cur_warehouse=CN>`_
* `ESP-01 or ESP-01S Board (This is not a shield. You will need to use jumpers) <https://www.amzn.com/B00O34AGSU/>`_

Fore more boards, and more boards you may be able to use, see the `Wifi Boards Section <../reference/hardware/wifi-boards.html>`_

What you will need (for WiFi)
------------------------------

* A Command Station (CS) made from a **Mega** and an Arduino Motor Shield
* One of the above WiFi boards
* Two (2) Male to Female Jumpers (plus 3 more if you are using an ESP-01 or 01s)

Quick links
-----------

* Jump to :ref:`Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield (recommended)`
* Jump to :ref:`Duinopeak ESP-8266 WiFi Expansion Board`
* Jump to :ref:`ESP-01 and ESP-01s`

Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield (recommended)
--------------------------------------------

We like this board here at DCC++ EX. It is simple, inexpensive, easy to use, and it works.

.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_jumpers1.jpg
   :alt: Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 1** - Makerfabs ESP-8266 WiFi Shield

Installing the board follows the same procedure in the previous section on assembly. Start by noting the tab end of the board and align it with the tab end of the motor board. You will stack this board on top to make a three board stack.

Remove the plastic jumpers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Note the two black plastic jumpers, we need to remove both of them. You can pull them off with your fingers or needle nose pliers and either stick them in a drawer or move them to the side by having them connect via one side to any of the row of Rx pins. The other end of the connector will just hang out over the Wifi Board.


.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_pins.jpg
   :alt: Remove the plastic jumpers
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 2** - Remove the plastic jumpers

Align the boards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Turn the board so that the tab end is to the left and the power connectors on the other boards are to the right. You will be looking at the left side of the shield. Align it so that the pins align starting with the tab end of the boards. The Tx, Rx, 2, 3, 4, 6, 6, 7 pins on the Motor Shield line up with the 0 through 7 pins on the Makerfabs WiFi Board. Start to get this row partially seated so all the pins are lined up with the holes. Note that there are more holes than pins. The two header holes closest to the power connectors will be empty.


.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_seat1.jpg
   :alt: Get the left side pins aligned
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 3** - Get the left side pins aligned

Seat the boards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now do the the other side. If all the pins are straight and lined up properly, hold both sides of the board and press it together gently (Figure 4). Note that the pins are quite long and will not go all the way into the header. You shoud have even more of the pins showing between the bottom of the WiFi board and the top of the header on the Motor Board than between the Motor Board and the Arduino. This is normal (Figure 5).


.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_seat2a.jpg
   :alt: Get the right side pins aligned
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 4** - Get the right side pins aligned

.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_seat_full.jpg
   :alt: Fully Seated Boards
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 5** - Fully Seated Boards

Install the jumper wires
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We now need to connect The Transmit (Tx) and Receive (Rx) pins on the ESP-8266 to the Rx and Tx pins for Serial1 on the Mega. The mega has one serial port connected to the USB port and then 3 extra ones we can access from pins on the board. You can think of Tx as "talking" and Rx as "listening". That will help you remember that if one thing is talking, the other has to use its ears to listen. So we must connect the Tx of the WiFi board to Rx1 on the Mega and the Rx pin on the WiFi Board to Tx1 on the Mega.

There are three rows of pins on the Makerfabs WiFi shield. The middle pins each connect to one of the first 8 pins on the header. Pin 0 goes to header pin 0, pin 1 goes to header pin 2, and so on. We aren't going to need those. With the plastic jumpers removed, nothing will be connected to any of those pins on the WiFi Board and therefore not connected down to the Mega through the Motor Shield.

ALL of the pins in the row marked Tx (the row closest to the header) are connected to the Tx pin of the ESP-8266. ALL of the pins in the row marked Rx (the row closes to the middle of the board) are connected to the Rx pin on the ESP-8266

Take a jumper wire and connect it to any one of the Tx pins on the WiFi Board and connect the other end to the Rx1 pin on the mega (pin 19)

Take a second jumper wire and connect it to any one of the Rx pins on the Wifi Board and connect the other end to Tx1 on the mega (pin 18)

.. image:: ../_static/images/wifi_jumpers2.png
   :alt: Figure 6 - Install the Jumper wires
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 6** - Install the jumper wires

.. note:: The screenprinting on the board may make it hard to see which pins are 18 and 19, they may not be aligned exactly. Count the pins if you need to to make sure that you are using the correct ones.

Duinopeak ESP-8266 WiFi Expansion Board
---------------------------------------

This board is designed as an expansion/prototyping board as well as a WiFi board. Tinkerers that want the extra space on the board to solder your expriements can have a party on the PCB. The only caveat with this board is that it cannot easily be connected in "passthrough mode" if you needed to use the Arduino to test a direct connection to the on board ESP-8266. It does not like the USB cable connected at the same time as a signal is on the Tx/Rx pins. This is a minor issue and does not affect normal operation since you won't have anything connected to the USB port.

.. note:: This is just a carrier board for an ESP-01 or 01s. You will still need an ESP-01s to stick onto this board. See the next section.

.. image:: ../_static/images/duinopeak.jpg
   :alt: Duinopeak WiFi Board
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 7** - Duinopeak WiFi Board

Install the Shield
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install this board on your Arduino, follow the same steps as above with the added step of installing and ESP-01s onto the board:

* Remove or place the plastic pin jumpers to the side
* Align and seat the board
* Use wire jumpers to connect any Rx pin to Tx1 on the Mega and any Tx pin to Rx1 on the Mega
* Seat an ESP-01s onto the 8 pin header on the board oriented with the white ESP-01 outline

ESP-01 and ESP-01s
-------------------

This is the board that started it all. It fueled the WiFi revolution in small devices. In fact, this little board is actually a microcontroller that is more powerful than the Arduno Uno! The difference between the 01 and the 01S is primarily that there is more memory on the 01-"S". Since the 01 version has been retired, any new board you get should be the 01s, but either will work.


.. image:: ../_static/images/esp-01s_2.jpg
   :alt: ESP-01s
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 8** - ESP-01s

Install the Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Below is a wiring diagram for connecting the ESP-8266 to the Arduino. For clarity, the image does not show the motor board already on top of the Mega, but since the headers connect all the pins together vertically, you can find the same pins on the motor board to get the 3.3V and Gnd to power the ESP-8266.


.. image:: ../_static/images/esp8266_mega.jpg
   :alt: ESP-8266 Wiring to a Mega
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 9** - Wiring and ESP-01s to a Mega

**Wiring**

.. code-block::

   Arduino   ESP8266
   3.3V -----> Vcc
   3.3V -----> CH_PD
   Gnd  -----> Gnd
   Tx   -----> Rx
   Rx   -----> Tx


In order to connect both Vcc and CH_PD to the 3.3V output of the arduino, you can make a "Y" shaped jumper or put the ESP-01s on a small circuit board and wire it that way. Below are little boards you can buy called "ESP-01 Breakout Board" or "ESP-01 Breadboard adapter". Some even have a voltage regulator so you can use the 5V power from the Mega instead of 3.3V

.. note:: About current requirements: While we at DCC-EX Labs have had success with running the ESP-01s off the 3.3V Mega power supply, this is at the limit of what the Mega can supply. The Mega 3.3V regulator is only rated for 200mA. The ESP can exceed this in short bursts. If you want to be safe, you can power a 5V to 3.3V regulator from the 5V supply or find another way to provide clean, regulated 3.3V to the ESP


.. image:: ../_static/images/esp-01_adapter.jpg
   :alt: ESP-01s Adapters
   :scale: 75%

**Figure 10** - ESP-01 Breakout Boards

.. warning:: The ESP-8266 chips are designed for 3.3V. DO NOT TRY TO CONNECT THEM TO 5V!! While they cannot handle 5V for power, their GPIO pins are 5V tolerant. Because of this, you don't need any additional circuitry. However, to be safe, you can use a small `level shifter board <https://www.mouser.com/ProductDetail/SparkFun/BOB-12009?qs=WyAARYrbSnb%252BGYLWggQnjQ%3D%3D&gclid=Cj0KCQiAzZL-BRDnARIsAPCJs73SnsmU-CTIk9V0XE6qjxY2WKlnxI0sLhT_rY5MYTbIOBmHne50Eh4aAm5ZEALw_wcB>`_ or use one of the breakout board like the one above and to the right that has a 3.3V regulator and level shifters for the Tx and Rx pins.

Install the Software
--------------------

If you already have the CS sofware running and are just adding WiFi, there is nothing further you need to do if you want to use the CS as an Access Point (AP) and connect a WiThrottle compatible CAB (Engine Driver). The next time you power up the CS, it will automatically find your WiFi board and what port it is connected to. See the detailed instructions here: `WiFi Configuration <../advanced-setup/wifi-config.html>`_

If you are setting up your Command Station for the first time, or are making changes click on the basic setup, navigate to `Command Station Downloads <../download/commandstation.html>`_ to load firmware onto the CS.
