docs/reference/software/command-summary.rst, before:

****************************
DCC++ EX Command Summary
****************************

**This is a summary, for a detailed command, see...**
  `Command Reference <command-reference.html>`_

----------------------------
Power management
----------------------------

 ``<0 [MAIN | PROG] >`` Power Off  
 
 ``<1 [MAIN | PROG | JOIN] >`` Power On  
 
 ``<c>`` Current on the MAIN Track

 ``<s>`` CommandStation Status

 ``<D RESET>``  Re-boot the command Station


----------------------------
Cab functions
----------------------------

 ``<!>`` EMERGENCY STOP 
 
 ``<t [ignored] cab speed 1|0>``  Throttle speed<127 direction 1=forward
 
 ``<- [cab]>`` Remove one or all cabs from reminders.
 
 ``<F cab function 1|0>`` command turns engine decoder functions ON and OFF
 
 ``<f cab byte1 [byte2]]>`` legacy functions, see command reference.
 
 ``<#>`` Show number of supported cabs
 
 ``<D SPEED28|SPEED128>`` Switch between 28 and 128 speed steps

 ``<M ignored hex1 hex2 [hex3 [hex4 [hex5]]]>`` Write a DCC packet the MAIN track

 ``<w cab cv value>`` Write CV on main track   

 ``<b cab cv bit value>`` Write CV bit on main track

----------------------------
Programming track
----------------------------

 ``<R>`` Read Loco address (programming track only)

 ``<W cab>`` write cab address to loco on prog track 

 ``<W  cv value >``

 ``<W  cv value callbacknum callbacksub>`` Legacy version.

 ``<B cv bit 0|1>`` Write bit to cv.

 ``<B cv bit value callbacknum callbacksub>`` legacy version  

 ``<R cv>`` Read CV BYTE (pending implementation)

 ``<R cv callbacknum callbacksub>`` Read CV BYTE (pending legacy) 

 ``<V cv value>`` Verify/Read of cv with guessed value

 ``<V cv bit 0|1>`` Verify/Read bit of cv with guessed value

 ``<P ignored hex1 hex2 [hex3 [hex4 [hex5]]]>`` Writes a DCC packet to the PROG track

----------------------------
DCC Accessories
----------------------------

 ``<a linear_address 1|0>``

 ``<a addr subaddr 1|0>``

----------------------------
Turnouts
----------------------------

 ``<T id address subaddress>`` Define DCC turnout

 ``<T id>`` Delete turnout

 ``<T>`` List defined turnouts

 ``<T id 0|1>`` Throw (1) or close(0) a defined tirnout 
 

----------------------------
Sensors
----------------------------
 
 ``<Q>`` Lists Status of all sensors.

 ``<S>`` Lists definition all defined sensors. 

 ``<S id pin 0|1>`` : Creates a new sensor ID, with specified PIN and PULLUP

 ``<S id>`` : Deletes definition of sensor ID  



----------------------------
Outputs
----------------------------
 
 ``<Z>`` Lists all defined output pins

 ``<Z id pin iflag>`` : Creates a new output ID, with specified PIN and IFLAG values.  

.. code-block::

   IFLAG, bit 0: 0 = forward operation (ACTIVE=HIGH / INACTIVE=LOW)
                 1 = inverted operation (ACTIVE=LOW / INACTIVE=HIGH)

   IFLAG, bit 1: 0 = state of pin restored on power-up to either ACTIVE or INACTIVE 
                     depending on state before power-down. 
                 1 = state of pin set on power-up, or when first created,
                     to either ACTIVE of INACTIVE depending on IFLAG, bit 2

   IFLAG, bit 2: 0 = state of pin set to INACTIVE upon power-up or when first created
                 1 = state of pin set to ACTIVE upon power-up or when first created 

 ``<Z id 0|1>`` : Sets output ID to either INACTIVE or ACTIVE state  


 ``<Z id>`` : Deletes definition of output ID  

----------------------------
EEPROM management
----------------------------
 ``<E>`` Store definitions to EEPROM
 
 ``<e>`` Erase ALL (turnouts, sensors, and outputs) from EEPROM 
 
 ``<D EEPROM>`` Diagnostic dump eeprom contents

----------------------------
Wifi Control
----------------------------
 ``<+command>`` Sends AT+ commands to the WiFi board (ESP8266, ESP32, etc.)

 ``<+X>`` Force the CS into "WiFi Connected" mode


----------------------------
Diagnostic traces
----------------------------

 ``<D CABS>`` Shows cab numbers and speed in reminder table

 ``<D RAM>`` Shows remaining RAM

 ``<D ACK ON|OFF>`` Enables ACK diagnostics

 ``<D CMD ON|OFF>`` Enables Command Parser diagnostics

 ``<D ETHERNET ON|OFF>`` Enables Ethernet diagnostics

 ``<D LCN ON|OFF>`` Enables LCN interface diagnostics

 ``<D WIFI ON|OFF>`` Enables Wifi diagnostics

 ``<D WIT ON|OFF>`` Enables Withrottle diagnostics

======================
Tuning
======================

 ``<D ACK LIMIT mA>`` Override ACK processing mA pulse size
 
 ``<D ACK MIN uS>`` Override ACK processing minimum pulse width
 
 ``<D ACK MAX uS>`` Override ACK processing max pulse width

 ``<D PROGBOOST>``  Override 250mA prog track limit while idle.


 
  
 
 ``<U ...>`` Is reserved for user commands (through user filter)

 **For a detailed command reference, see...**
  `Command Reference <command-reference.html>`_

Commit message:

HAL and command clarifications.
Implemented suggested changes from KC Smith (pin numbers, ordering of words, etc.).
Added new analogue diagnostic commands for analogue outputs and inputs; Updated command summary with new turnout commands etc.; changed Serial number for DFPlayer example so it doesn't conflict with WiFI if used;
Added summary of available device drivers to hal-config.rst;
Added clarification to description of I2C pullups.

docs/reference/software/command-summary.rst, after:

****************************
DCC++ EX Command Summary
****************************

**This is a summary, for a detailed command, see...**
  `Command Reference <command-reference.html>`_

----------------------------
Power management
----------------------------

 ``<0 [MAIN | PROG] >`` Power Off  
 
 ``<1 [MAIN | PROG | JOIN] >`` Power On  
 
 ``<c>`` Current on the MAIN Track

 ``<s>`` CommandStation Status

 ``<D RESET>``  Re-boot the command Station


----------------------------
Cab functions
----------------------------

 ``<!>`` EMERGENCY STOP 
 
 ``<t [ignored] cab speed 1|0>``  Throttle speed<127 direction 1=forward
 
 ``<- [cab]>`` Remove one or all cabs from reminders.
 
 ``<F cab function 1|0>`` command turns engine decoder functions ON and OFF
 
 ``<f cab byte1 [byte2]]>`` legacy functions, see command reference.
 
 ``<#>`` Show number of supported cabs
 
 ``<D SPEED28|SPEED128>`` Switch between 28 and 128 speed steps

 ``<M ignored hex1 hex2 [hex3 [hex4 [hex5]]]>`` Write a DCC packet the MAIN track

 ``<w cab cv value>`` Write CV on main track   

 ``<b cab cv bit value>`` Write CV bit on main track

----------------------------
Programming track
----------------------------

 ``<R>`` Read Loco address (programming track only)

 ``<W cab>`` write cab address to loco on prog track 

 ``<W  cv value >``

 ``<W  cv value callbacknum callbacksub>`` Legacy version.

 ``<B cv bit 0|1>`` Write bit to cv.

 ``<B cv bit value callbacknum callbacksub>`` legacy version  

 ``<R cv>`` Read CV BYTE (pending implementation)

 ``<R cv callbacknum callbacksub>`` Read CV BYTE (pending legacy) 

 ``<V cv value>`` Verify/Read of cv with guessed value

 ``<V cv bit 0|1>`` Verify/Read bit of cv with guessed value

 ``<P ignored hex1 hex2 [hex3 [hex4 [hex5]]]>`` Writes a DCC packet to the PROG track

----------------------------
DCC Accessories
----------------------------

 ``<a linear_address 1|0>``

 ``<a addr subaddr 1|0>``

----------------------------
Turnouts
----------------------------

 ``<T id address subaddress>`` Define DCC turnout (deprecated)

 ``<T id DCC address subaddress>`` Define DCC turnout

 ``<T id DCC linearaddress>`` Define DCC turnout

 ``<T id SERVO vpin thrownPos closedPos profile>`` Define servo turnout

 ``<T id VPIN vpin>`` Define VPIN turnout

 ``<T id>`` Delete turnout

 ``<T>`` List defined turnouts

 ``<T id 0|1|C|T>`` Throw (1 or T) or close(0 or C) a defined turnout 
 

----------------------------
Sensors
----------------------------
 
 ``<Q>`` Lists Status of all sensors.

 ``<S>`` Lists definition all defined sensors. 

 ``<S id pin 0|1>`` : Creates a new sensor ID, with specified PIN and PULLUP

 ``<S id>`` : Deletes definition of sensor ID  



----------------------------
Outputs
----------------------------
 
 ``<Z>`` Lists all defined output pins

 ``<Z id pin iflag>`` : Creates a new output ID, with specified PIN and IFLAG values.  

.. code-block::

   IFLAG, bit 0: 0 = forward operation (ACTIVE=HIGH / INACTIVE=LOW)
                 1 = inverted operation (ACTIVE=LOW / INACTIVE=HIGH)

   IFLAG, bit 1: 0 = state of pin restored on power-up to either ACTIVE or INACTIVE 
                     depending on state before power-down. 
                 1 = state of pin set on power-up, or when first created,
                     to either ACTIVE of INACTIVE depending on IFLAG, bit 2

   IFLAG, bit 2: 0 = state of pin set to INACTIVE upon power-up or when first created
                 1 = state of pin set to ACTIVE upon power-up or when first created 

 ``<Z id 0|1>`` : Sets output ID to either INACTIVE or ACTIVE state  


 ``<Z id>`` : Deletes definition of output ID  

----------------------------
EEPROM management
----------------------------
 ``<E>`` Store definitions to EEPROM
 
 ``<e>`` Erase ALL (turnouts, sensors, and outputs) from EEPROM 
 
 ``<D EEPROM>`` Diagnostic dump eeprom contents

----------------------------
Wifi Control
----------------------------
 ``<+command>`` Sends AT+ commands to the WiFi board (ESP8266, ESP32, etc.)

 ``<+X>`` Force the CS into "WiFi Connected" mode


----------------------------
Diagnostic traces
----------------------------

 ``<D CABS>`` Shows cab numbers and speed in reminder table

 ``<D RAM>`` Shows remaining RAM

 ``<D ACK ON|OFF>`` Enables ACK diagnostics

 ``<D CMD ON|OFF>`` Enables Command Parser diagnostics

 ``<D ETHERNET ON|OFF>`` Enables Ethernet diagnostics

 ``<D LCN ON|OFF>`` Enables LCN interface diagnostics

 ``<D WIFI ON|OFF>`` Enables Wifi diagnostics

 ``<D WIT ON|OFF>`` Enables Withrottle diagnostics

======================
Tuning
======================

 ``<D ACK LIMIT mA>`` Override ACK processing mA pulse size
 
 ``<D ACK MIN uS>`` Override ACK processing minimum pulse width
 
 ``<D ACK MAX uS>`` Override ACK processing max pulse width

 ``<D PROGBOOST>``  Override 250mA prog track limit while idle.

=====================
I/O (HAL) Diagnostics
=====================

 ``<D HAL SHOW>`` List HAL devices and allocated VPINs

 ``<D SERVO vpin value [profile]>`` Set servo position to `value` on pin `vpin`.

 ``<D ANOUT vpin value [param2]>``  Write `value` to analogue pin `vpin`, supplying `param2` to the driver.

 ``<D ANIN vpin>``  Read and display pin `vpin`'s analogue value.
  

 ==========
 Other
 ==========
 ``<U ...>`` Is reserved for user commands (through user filter)

 **For a detailed command reference, see...**
  `Command Reference <command-reference.html>`_
