docs/ex-commandstation/get-started/installer.rst, before:

.. include:: /include/include-ex-cs.rst
.. meta::
   :keywords: EX-CommandStation Command Station EX-Installer

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l2.rst
|EX-CS-LOGO|

********************
Install the Software
********************

|conductor|

.. sidebar::

   .. contents:: On this page
      :depth: 4
      :local:
    
This page is specifically intended for a |conductor-text| who has installed *just* the recommended hardware (including WiFi). If you are a |tinkerer-text| or |engineer-text| or have installed some of the additional, or different, hardware from that recommended for a |conductor-text| then we suggest that you look at the :doc:`/ex-installer/index` page for the full instructions.

----

Once you have assembled your |EX-CS| hardware you need to load our software onto it to make it usable. |BR| To make it as simple as possible we have created the |EX-I| app.

|force-break|

Requirements (for installing)
=============================

.. sidebar:: **USB Cable**
   
   Make sure your USB Cable is connected from your computer to the |EX-CS|. Make sure no other programs (like the Arduino IDE) are using the same USB port.

* a Windows, Linux or MacOS X **Computer**
* an |EX-CS| (Arduino Mega/Uno + Motor shield and optional WiFi shield)
* a **USB cable** to connect your computer to the Microcontroller

1. Getting Ready 
================

**Instruction for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux (including the Raspberry Pi)**

**Connect** your |EX-CS| **hardware** to your computer via USB. |BR| Make sure your USB Cable is connected from your computer to the EX-CommandStation. Make sure no other programs (like the Arduino IDE) are using the same USB port.


2. Download and Run EX-Installer 
================================

.. warning::
   :class: warning-float-right
   
   **Antivirus Software** |BR| You *may* need to turn off your antivirus software before you try to install. |BR| Sometimes our software gets blocked by antivirus apps. If you see any errors on the install screen, this is usually the issue.

* Download the :ref:`EX-Installer <download/ex-commandstation:ex-Installer>` app. |BR| |BR|

* For **Microsoft Windows**:

  * Open the Windows *File Manager*
  * Find the folder in which the **EX-Installer-Win64.exe** or **EX-Installer-Win32.exe** was saved. |BR| Generally this will default to downloading to the *downloads* folder but your browser may be configured differently.
  * **Run** ``EX-Installer-Win64.exe`` or **EX-Installer-Win32.exe** or **EX-Installer-Win32.exe** |BR| |BR| Note: depending on the configuration of your computer the '.exe' may or may not appear. This is not of concern. |BR| |BR|

* For **Apple macOS**:

  * :dcc-ex-red:`The instructions here are incomplete.  This will be updated shortly.` Open a terminal window and navigate to that folder
  * **Run the installer with** the following command: ``./EX-Installer-macOS`` |BR| |BR|

* For **Linux**:

  * Right-click on the file, go to Properties, then the Permissions tab, and check "Allow executing file as program"
  * Open a terminal window and navigate to that folder
  * **Run the installer with** the following command: ``./EX-Installer-Linux64`` |BR| |BR|


You will be presented with the following screen...

----

3. Installer Screens
====================

The 'EX-Installer Welcome' screen
---------------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/welcome.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Welcome
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

This screen provides some basic information about the process of loading the Software.

If you are using the recommended Mega hardware, you should not need to adjust the other settings on this page.

To proceed, click the :guilabel:`Manage Arduino CLI` button.

|force-break|

'Manage Arduino CLI' screen
---------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/manage_cli.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Manage CLI
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Welcome screen

This screen allows you to install or update the *Arduino Command Line Interface (CLI)*.

We use the *Arduino Command Line Interface (CLI)* to upload the DCC-EX products to your Arduino.

If you have not installed the CLI previously you *must* have Arduino CLI installed to proceed, simply click the :guilabel:`Install Arduino CLI` button if it is showing.

If you already have the Arduino CLI installed, it is recommended that you refresh it periodically (e.g. weekly) to ensure support for the various device details are kept up to date. To refresh the CLI, simply click the :guilabel:`Refresh Arduino CLI` button.

If you are using the recommended Mega hardware, you should not need to adjust the other settings on this page.

Once the CLI is installed, To proceed, click the :guilabel:`Select your device` button.

|force-break|

'Select Your Device' screen
---------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_device.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select Device
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Device screen

On this screen you will need to |BR| a) select the type of device you wish to load the |EX-CS| software onto, and |BR| b) the USB port you have connected the device to on your computer.

|EX-I| will attempt to work out both of these for you, but it may need assistance.

Click on the :guilabel:`Scan for Devices` button. 

**No Devices Found**

After you have clicked on the :guilabel:`Scan for Devices` button, if you see **No devices found** to means that you either a) have not connected the device to the computer, or b) the device was not recognised by the computer.

If you have not connected the device, connect it now then click the :guilabel:`Scan for Devices` button again.

If the device *is* connected but not found refer to the :doc:`/support/ex-cs-diagnose` page for assistance.


**Multiple Devices Found**

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_device_multiple_devices.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select Device - Multiple Devices
   :scale: 50%
   :align: center

   EX-Installer - Device - Multiple Devices

If more than one device is found (on different USB ports), you will need to select which one you wish to load the software on to.

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_device_selection.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select Device - Selection
   :scale: 50%
   :align: center

   EX-Installer - Device - Selection

|EX-I| will attempt to work out what type of Arduino you have connected, but some cases it will not be able to do so. (This is especially common with cheap clone devices.) 

Check and select the appropriate board from the drop down list.

Once you have a port and device type selected, to proceed, click the :guilabel:`Select product to install` button.

|force-break|

'Select the Product to Install' screen
--------------------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_product.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select Product
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Product Screen

Currently only the |EX-CS| product can be installed by the |EX-I|.

Click on the |EX-CS| logo to proceed.

|force-break|

'Select EX-CommandStation Version' screen
-----------------------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_cs_version.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select EX-CommandStation version
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Select EX-CommandStation version screen

On this screen you need to select:

* Which version of the EX-CommandStation software you wish to load
* How you wish to configure the software

*Which version*

Select which version of the |EX-CS| software to load onto your hardware.  If you are unsure, or unless you have been otherwise directed by the support team, we recommend you select ``Latest Production``.

*How to configure*

Select how you wish to configure your |EX-CS|. Unless you are updating a previous version that you manually configured, or want to manually make advanced configuration changes, select ``Configure options on the next screen``

If you do want to manually make advanced configuration changes, see the :doc:`/ex-installer/installing` page for instructions on how to enable them.

If you have selected ``Configure options on the next screen``, to proceed, click the :guilabel:`Configure EX-CommandStation` button.

|force-break|

'Install EX-CommandStation' - Configuration screen
--------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_configure.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation Configuration
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation Configuration screen

On this screen you can select some of the flexible and optional features of the |EX-CS|:abbr:

* Motor Driver type
* LCD or oLED display
* Wifi
* Ethernet
* Set track modes
* Advanced Config

Only the *Motor Driver* and *WiFi* will be covered on this page.  If you have installed different hardware to that recommended, see the :doc:`/ex-installer/installing` page for instructions on all the available configuration options.

|force-break|

**Motor Driver**

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_configure_motor_shield.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation - Configure Motor Driver
   :scale: 60%
   :align: center

   EX-Installer - Configure Motor Driver

You *must* select the motor driver type that you have installed.  The installer can't detect this, so you must select the correct board or the |EX-CS| may not work. If you have installed the recommended Motor Driver, select `STANDARD_MOTOR_SHIELD` if you purchased the **Arduino Motor Shield Rev3**, or `EX8874_SHIELD` if you purchased our **EX-MotorShield8874**.

.. sidebar:: Station Mode VS Access Point Mode

   |conductor| |BR| There is no right or wrong selection here. Both options here may be valid for you to use, depending on how you wish to use your |EX-CS|.

   If a) your layout is close to your home WiFi network, b) you don't transport the layout around, c) you need to use more than four WiFi controllers at a time, and/or d) you are not likely to, or have no concerns about letting visitors access your home WiFi (for them to use their own devices on your layout), then **Station Mode** is probably a better option.

   If the above is not generally true, then **Access Point Mode** may be a better choice.

   You must choose one of these options now, but you can always come back later and re-load the software with a different option.

**WiFi**

If you have installed and optional WiFi board, or are using a microcontroller board with integrated WiFi, enable the ``I have WiFi`` option, which will present you with additional options.

You can configure the WiFi for EX-CommandStation two ways:

* **Access Point mode** |BR| You can configure for EX-CommandStation to have its own, completely isolated, WiFi Network. This is referred to as *Access Point Mode*. (Most useful if your layout is away from the house, or you transport your layout frequently.) |BR| To enable, select ``Use my EX-CommandStation as an Access Point`` 
* **Station mode**  |BR| The EX-CommandStation can be setup so that it connects to your existing home WiFi Network. This is referred to as *Station Mode*. |BR| To enable, select  ``Connect my EX-CommandStation to my existing wireless network`` 

**Use my EX-CommandStation as an Access Point**

   .. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_configure_wifi_access_point.png
      :alt: EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation - Configure WiFi Access Point
      :scale: 50%
      :align: center

      EX-Installer - Configure WiFi - Access Point

   .. note::
      :class: note-float-right

      If possible choose a channel that is unused (or least used) by other WiFi networks around your location. There are numerious phone apps that can help you determine which channels are being used by other networks |BR| 
      For Android, 'Wifi Analyzer' is one that works.  For iOS 'Netspot' is suitable :dcc-ex-text-size-60pct:`(you don't need to purchase WiPry device they mention)`.
   

   If ``Use my EX-CommandStation as an Access Point`` is selected, two additional options are presented:

   * WiFi Password
   * WiFi Channel

   **WiFi Password** is optional.  |BR| **We recommend you leave this field blank.** |BR| If this field is left blank the password will default to "PASS_xxxxx" where 'xxxxx' will be the same as the SSID *name* that will be automatically configured.

   **WiFi Channel** can be any value from 1-11.

**Connect my EX-CommandStation to my existing wireless network** 

   .. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_configure_wifi_station.png
      :alt: EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation - Configure Wifi - Station Mode
      :scale: 60%
      :align: center

      EX-Installer - Configure Wifi - Station Mode

   If ``Connect my EX-CommandStation to my existing wireless network`` is selected, two additional options are presented:

   * Wifi SSID
   * WiFi Password

   Both are required, Though it is possible, but unlikely, that the WiFi Password for your network is blank.  If so, leave the field blank.

   *Wifi SSID* is the name of your home network.

   *WiFi Password* is the password for your home network.

To proceed, click the :guilabel:`Compile and Load` button.

|force-break|

'Compile and Load' screen
-------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_load.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Load
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Compile and Load Screen

To proceed, click the :guilabel:`Load` button.

Results are shown in the lower half of the screen.


If there are **no errors**, you can proceed to :doc:`testing your setup <controllers>`.

If there **are errors** or you are having difficulties check the :doc:`/support/ex-cs-troubleshooting` page for assistance.

|force-break|

----

Next Steps - Selecting a Throttle (Controller) 
==============================================

.. NOTE:: 
   :class: note-float-right
   
   The programming track is for programming only. Make sure you are on the main track if you expect your loco to move or respond to light or sound commands.

Click :doc:`here <controllers>` or click the "next" button to learn how to select a throttle (controller) suitable to test and use your |EX-CS|.

|force-break|

Commit message:

add links to the detailed wifi config page

docs/ex-commandstation/get-started/installer.rst, after:

.. include:: /include/include-ex-cs.rst
.. meta::
   :keywords: EX-CommandStation Command Station EX-Installer

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l2.rst
|EX-CS-LOGO|

********************
Install the Software
********************

|conductor|

.. sidebar::

   .. contents:: On this page
      :depth: 4
      :local:
    
This page is specifically intended for a |conductor-text| who has installed *just* the recommended hardware (including WiFi). If you are a |tinkerer-text| or |engineer-text| or have installed some of the additional, or different, hardware from that recommended for a |conductor-text| then we suggest that you look at the :doc:`/ex-installer/index` page for the full instructions.

----

Once you have assembled your |EX-CS| hardware you need to load our software onto it to make it usable. |BR| To make it as simple as possible we have created the |EX-I| app.

|force-break|

Requirements (for installing)
=============================

.. sidebar:: **USB Cable**
   
   Make sure your USB Cable is connected from your computer to the |EX-CS|. Make sure no other programs (like the Arduino IDE) are using the same USB port.

* a Windows, Linux or MacOS X **Computer**
* an |EX-CS| (Arduino Mega/Uno + Motor shield and optional WiFi shield)
* a **USB cable** to connect your computer to the Microcontroller

1. Getting Ready 
================

**Instruction for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux (including the Raspberry Pi)**

**Connect** your |EX-CS| **hardware** to your computer via USB. |BR| Make sure your USB Cable is connected from your computer to the EX-CommandStation. Make sure no other programs (like the Arduino IDE) are using the same USB port.


2. Download and Run EX-Installer 
================================

.. warning::
   :class: warning-float-right
   
   **Antivirus Software** |BR| You *may* need to turn off your antivirus software before you try to install. |BR| Sometimes our software gets blocked by antivirus apps. If you see any errors on the install screen, this is usually the issue.

* Download the :ref:`EX-Installer <download/ex-commandstation:ex-Installer>` app. |BR| |BR|

* For **Microsoft Windows**:

  * Open the Windows *File Manager*
  * Find the folder in which the **EX-Installer-Win64.exe** or **EX-Installer-Win32.exe** was saved. |BR| Generally this will default to downloading to the *downloads* folder but your browser may be configured differently.
  * **Run** ``EX-Installer-Win64.exe`` or **EX-Installer-Win32.exe** or **EX-Installer-Win32.exe** |BR| |BR| Note: depending on the configuration of your computer the '.exe' may or may not appear. This is not of concern. |BR| |BR|

* For **Apple macOS**:

  * :dcc-ex-red:`The instructions here are incomplete.  This will be updated shortly.` Open a terminal window and navigate to that folder
  * **Run the installer with** the following command: ``./EX-Installer-macOS`` |BR| |BR|

* For **Linux**:

  * Right-click on the file, go to Properties, then the Permissions tab, and check "Allow executing file as program"
  * Open a terminal window and navigate to that folder
  * **Run the installer with** the following command: ``./EX-Installer-Linux64`` |BR| |BR|


You will be presented with the following screen...

----

3. Installer Screens
====================

The 'EX-Installer Welcome' screen
---------------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/welcome.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Welcome
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

This screen provides some basic information about the process of loading the Software.

If you are using the recommended Mega hardware, you should not need to adjust the other settings on this page.

To proceed, click the :guilabel:`Manage Arduino CLI` button.

|force-break|

'Manage Arduino CLI' screen
---------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/manage_cli.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Manage CLI
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Welcome screen

This screen allows you to install or update the *Arduino Command Line Interface (CLI)*.

We use the *Arduino Command Line Interface (CLI)* to upload the DCC-EX products to your Arduino.

If you have not installed the CLI previously you *must* have Arduino CLI installed to proceed, simply click the :guilabel:`Install Arduino CLI` button if it is showing.

If you already have the Arduino CLI installed, it is recommended that you refresh it periodically (e.g. weekly) to ensure support for the various device details are kept up to date. To refresh the CLI, simply click the :guilabel:`Refresh Arduino CLI` button.

If you are using the recommended Mega hardware, you should not need to adjust the other settings on this page.

Once the CLI is installed, To proceed, click the :guilabel:`Select your device` button.

|force-break|

'Select Your Device' screen
---------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_device.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select Device
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Device screen

On this screen you will need to |BR| a) select the type of device you wish to load the |EX-CS| software onto, and |BR| b) the USB port you have connected the device to on your computer.

|EX-I| will attempt to work out both of these for you, but it may need assistance.

Click on the :guilabel:`Scan for Devices` button. 

**No Devices Found**

After you have clicked on the :guilabel:`Scan for Devices` button, if you see **No devices found** to means that you either a) have not connected the device to the computer, or b) the device was not recognised by the computer.

If you have not connected the device, connect it now then click the :guilabel:`Scan for Devices` button again.

If the device *is* connected but not found refer to the :doc:`/support/ex-cs-diagnose` page for assistance.


**Multiple Devices Found**

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_device_multiple_devices.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select Device - Multiple Devices
   :scale: 50%
   :align: center

   EX-Installer - Device - Multiple Devices

If more than one device is found (on different USB ports), you will need to select which one you wish to load the software on to.

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_device_selection.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select Device - Selection
   :scale: 50%
   :align: center

   EX-Installer - Device - Selection

|EX-I| will attempt to work out what type of Arduino you have connected, but some cases it will not be able to do so. (This is especially common with cheap clone devices.) 

Check and select the appropriate board from the drop down list.

Once you have a port and device type selected, to proceed, click the :guilabel:`Select product to install` button.

|force-break|

'Select the Product to Install' screen
--------------------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_product.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select Product
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Product Screen

Currently only the |EX-CS| product can be installed by the |EX-I|.

Click on the |EX-CS| logo to proceed.

|force-break|

'Select EX-CommandStation Version' screen
-----------------------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/select_cs_version.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Select EX-CommandStation version
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Select EX-CommandStation version screen

On this screen you need to select:

* Which version of the EX-CommandStation software you wish to load
* How you wish to configure the software

*Which version*

Select which version of the |EX-CS| software to load onto your hardware.  If you are unsure, or unless you have been otherwise directed by the support team, we recommend you select ``Latest Production``.

*How to configure*

Select how you wish to configure your |EX-CS|. Unless you are updating a previous version that you manually configured, or want to manually make advanced configuration changes, select ``Configure options on the next screen``

If you do want to manually make advanced configuration changes, see the :doc:`/ex-installer/installing` page for instructions on how to enable them.

If you have selected ``Configure options on the next screen``, to proceed, click the :guilabel:`Configure EX-CommandStation` button.

|force-break|

'Install EX-CommandStation' - Configuration screen
--------------------------------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_configure.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation Configuration
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation Configuration screen

On this screen you can select some of the flexible and optional features of the |EX-CS|:abbr:

* Motor Driver type
* LCD or oLED display
* Wifi
* Ethernet
* Set track modes
* Advanced Config

Only the *Motor Driver* and *WiFi* will be covered on this page.  If you have installed different hardware to that recommended, see the :doc:`/ex-installer/installing` page for instructions on all the available configuration options.

|force-break|

**Motor Driver**

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_configure_motor_shield.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation - Configure Motor Driver
   :scale: 60%
   :align: center

   EX-Installer - Configure Motor Driver

You *must* select the motor driver type that you have installed.  The installer can't detect this, so you must select the correct board or the |EX-CS| may not work. If you have installed the recommended Motor Driver, select `STANDARD_MOTOR_SHIELD` if you purchased the **Arduino Motor Shield Rev3**, or `EX8874_SHIELD` if you purchased our **EX-MotorShield8874**.

.. sidebar:: Station Mode VS Access Point Mode

   |conductor| |BR| There is no right or wrong selection here. Both options here may be valid for you to use, depending on how you wish to use your |EX-CS|.

   If a) your layout is close to your home WiFi network, b) you don't transport the layout around, c) you need to use more than four WiFi controllers at a time, and/or d) you are not likely to, or have no concerns about letting visitors access your home WiFi (for them to use their own devices on your layout), then **Station Mode** is probably a better option.

   If the above is not generally true, then **Access Point Mode** may be a better choice.

   You must choose one of these options now, but you can always come back later and re-load the software with a different option.

**WiFi**

If you have installed and optional WiFi board, or are using a microcontroller board with integrated WiFi, enable the ``I have WiFi`` option, which will present you with additional options.

You can configure the WiFi for EX-CommandStation two ways:

* **Access Point mode** |BR| You can configure for EX-CommandStation to have its own, completely isolated, WiFi Network. This is referred to as *Access Point Mode*. (Most useful if your layout is away from the house, or you transport your layout frequently.) |BR| To enable, select ``Use my EX-CommandStation as an Access Point`` 
* **Station mode**  |BR| The EX-CommandStation can be setup so that it connects to your existing home WiFi Network. This is referred to as *Station Mode*. |BR| To enable, select  ``Connect my EX-CommandStation to my existing wireless network`` 

**Use my EX-CommandStation as an Access Point**

   .. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_configure_wifi_access_point.png
      :alt: EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation - Configure WiFi Access Point
      :scale: 50%
      :align: center

      EX-Installer - Configure WiFi - Access Point

   .. note::
      :class: note-float-right

      If possible, choose a channel that is unused (or least used) by other WiFi networks around your location. |BR|      
      There are numerous phone apps that can help you determine which channels are being used by other networks. For Android, *'Wifi Analyzer'* is one that works.  For iOS *'Netspot'* is suitable :dcc-ex-text-size-60pct:`(you don't need to purchase WiPry device they mention)`.
   

   If ``Use my EX-CommandStation as an Access Point`` is selected, two additional options are presented:

   * WiFi Password
   * WiFi Channel

   **WiFi Password** is optional.  |BR| **We recommend you leave this field blank.** |BR| If this field is left blank the password will default to "PASS_xxxxx" where 'xxxxx' will be the same as the SSID *name* that will be automatically configured.

   **WiFi Channel** can be any value from 1-11.

**Connect my EX-CommandStation to my existing wireless network** 

   .. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_configure_wifi_station.png
      :alt: EX-Installer - EX-CommandStation - Configure Wifi - Station Mode
      :scale: 60%
      :align: center

      EX-Installer - Configure Wifi - Station Mode

   If ``Connect my EX-CommandStation to my existing wireless network`` is selected, two additional options are presented:

   * Wifi SSID
   * WiFi Password

   Both are required, Though it is possible, but unlikely, that the WiFi Password for your network is blank.  If so, leave the field blank.

   *Wifi SSID* is the name of your home network.

   *WiFi Password* is the password for your home network.

To proceed, click the :guilabel:`Compile and Load` button.

.. note::

   See the :doc:`/ex-commandstation/advanced-setup/supported-wifi/wifi-config` page if you wish to find more detailed information on the the WiFi options.

|force-break|

'Compile and Load' screen
-------------------------

.. figure:: /_static/images/ex-installer/ex_cs_load.png
   :alt: EX-Installer - Load
   :scale: 40%
   :align: left

   EX-Installer - Compile and Load Screen

To proceed, click the :guilabel:`Load` button.

Results are shown in the lower half of the screen.


If there are **no errors**, you can proceed to :doc:`testing your setup <controllers>`.

If there **are errors** or you are having difficulties check the :doc:`/support/ex-cs-troubleshooting` page for assistance.

|force-break|

----

Next Steps - Selecting a Throttle (Controller) 
==============================================

.. NOTE:: 
   :class: note-float-right
   
   The programming track is for programming only. Make sure you are on the main track if you expect your loco to move or respond to light or sound commands.

Click :doc:`here <controllers>` or click the "next" button to learn how to select a throttle (controller) suitable to test and use your |EX-CS|.

|force-break|
