docs/ex-commandstation/get-started/purchasing.rst, before:

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l2.rst
.. include:: /include/include-ex-cs.rst
.. meta::
   :keywords: purchasing

|EX-CS-LOGO|

****************
Purchasing Parts
****************

|conductor| 

.. sidebar::

  .. contents:: On this page
    :depth: 2
    :local:

This page explains what you will need to acquire to build a |EX-CS| using the recommended parts for a |conductor-text|.  

Some of the parts (like track and some wire) you will likely already have on hand.

.. rst-class:: clearer

What you need to Acquire
========================

.. sidebar::  Optional configuration
    
  |conductor| |BR| |EX-CS| can be configured in an additional 'Conductor friendly' way, without wifi, but it requires |JMRI| to be installed on a computer.

  |tinkerer| |engineer| |BR| |EX-CS| is also supported on a variety of different hardware that you might also consider

  To help choose a suitable microcontroller, try our handy new table here: :ref:`reference/hardware/microcontroller-boards:choosing a microcontroller`
  
  - Supported :doc:`Arduino boards </reference/hardware/microcontroller-boards>`
  - Supported :doc:`motor shields </reference/hardware/motor-boards>`
  - Supported :doc:`ESP8266 WiFi shield </reference/hardware/wifi-boards>`
  - Supported :doc:`Ethernet shield </reference/hardware/ethernet-boards>`

Hardware
--------

You will need to find or purchase:

#. a supported **Arduino board** |BR| We recommend the `Elegoo Mega 2560 <https://www.amazon.com/ELEGOO-ATmega2560-ATMEGA16U2-Projects-Compliant/dp/B01H4ZLZLQ/>`_ |BR| |BR|
#. a supported **Motor Driver**  |BR| We recommend either our own :doc:`EX-MotorShield8874 </reference/hardware/motorboards/ex-motor-shield-8874>` or the `Arduino Motor Shield Rev3 <https://store.arduino.cc/collections/shields/products/arduino-motor-shield-rev3>`_ |BR| |BR|
#. a supported **WiFi shield** |BR| We recommend the `Makerfabs ESP8266 WiFi Shield <https://www.makerfabs.com/esp8266-wifi-shield.html>`_ |BR| :dcc-ex-red-bold:`WARNING`: Most ESP8266 WiFi options, including the Makerfabs WiFi Shield, are now shipping with an incompatible AT firmware version. This can be corrected, but is probably beyond Conductor level and requires additional hardware. |BR| See :doc:`/support/wifi-at-version` for more information. |BR| We are currently investigating other options. |BR| |BR|
#. Two (2) Male to Female **Jumpers leads** |BR| |BR|
#. a 9-14v DC :doc:`power supply </reference/hardware/power-supplies>` for the motor shield |BR| We recommend `12V 5Amp Power Supply for the Track <https://www.amazon.com/LEDMO-Power-Supply-Transformers-Adapter/dp/B01461MOGQ/>`_ |BR| |BR|
#. a 2.5mm x 5.5mm Female DC Plug to **Screw Terminal (optional, but recommended)** to connect the motor shield power supply |BR| |BR|
#. a **7-9v DC power supply** |BR| for the Arduino - be sure it is **tip positive** such as `this one on amazon <https://www.amazon.com/Adapter-Arduino-Schwinn-Elliptical-Recumbent/dp/B06Y1LF8T5/ref=sr_1_2_sspa>`_ (while it is connected to the PC, this is not needed) |BR| |BR|
#. any **computer** running Windows, macOS, or Linux (only needed for the initial install of the software) |BR| |BR|
#. a **USB Cable** from the computer to the Arduino |BR| |BR|
#. a **piece of track** to run trains or program on |BR| |BR|
#. some **wire** (18 to 16 AWG twisted pair recommended [#wire]_.) |BR| |BR|
#. a 'known' working **DCC-equipped locomotive**

.. warning::
  :class: warning-float-right-wide

  **Uno R4 is not supported** |BR| If you choose to purchase an Arduino Uno (not recommended), it is vital that you purchase the **Revision 3 (R3)** version, :dcc-ex-red-bold:`not` the **Revision 4 (R4)** version.  The |EX-CS| :dcc-ex-red-bold:`cannot run` on the R4 version.  :doc:`See here from more informtion</news/posts/20230728>`.

.. note:: 

  You can also find more detailed hardware information in the :doc:`/reference/hardware/index` section.

|force-break|

Software
--------

Our |EX-I| app is recommended for most users as it automatically downloads and installs the required software. 

13. See the :doc:`Command Station download page </download/ex-commandstation>` to download a copy to your computer.

A Throttle (Controller)
-----------------------


14. You'll also need something to control your trains. |BR| There are several options. We will discuss these following the system setup, but the introductory configuration covered in the following pages lends itself to using a smart phone (Android or Apple iOS).

Next Steps
==========

Click the "next" button to see how to assemble your |EX-CS|.

----

.. [#wire] **Wire Gauge** - The recommended Arduino |Motor Driver| can only provide about 1.5 Amps of power (despite being rated for 2A), so 18 AWG wire is ample. If you use a different |Motor Driver| and deliver more current to your track, you may need thicker wire (lower number gauge).

Commit message:

Update pages to reference new EX-WiFi shield

docs/ex-commandstation/get-started/purchasing.rst, after:

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l2.rst
.. include:: /include/include-ex-cs.rst
.. meta::
   :keywords: purchasing

|EX-CS-LOGO|

****************
Purchasing Parts
****************

|conductor| 

.. sidebar::

  .. contents:: On this page
    :depth: 2
    :local:

This page explains what you will need to acquire to build a |EX-CS| using the recommended parts for a |conductor-text|.  

Some of the parts (like track and some wire) you will likely already have on hand.

.. rst-class:: clearer

What you need to Acquire
========================

.. sidebar::  Optional configuration
    
  |conductor| |BR| |EX-CS| can be configured in an additional 'Conductor friendly' way, without wifi, but it requires |JMRI| to be installed on a computer.

  |tinkerer| |engineer| |BR| |EX-CS| is also supported on a variety of different hardware that you might also consider

  To help choose a suitable microcontroller, try our handy new table here: :ref:`reference/hardware/microcontroller-boards:choosing a microcontroller`
  
  - Supported :doc:`Arduino boards </reference/hardware/microcontroller-boards>`
  - Supported :doc:`motor shields </reference/hardware/motor-boards>`
  - Supported :doc:`ESP8266 WiFi shield </reference/hardware/wifi-boards>`
  - Supported :doc:`Ethernet shield </reference/hardware/ethernet-boards>`

Hardware
--------

You will need to find or purchase:

#. a supported **Arduino board** |BR| We recommend the `Elegoo Mega 2560 <https://www.amazon.com/ELEGOO-ATmega2560-ATMEGA16U2-Projects-Compliant/dp/B01H4ZLZLQ/>`_ |BR| |BR|
#. a supported **Motor Driver**  |BR| We recommend either our own :doc:`EX-MotorShield8874 </reference/hardware/motorboards/ex-motor-shield-8874>` or the `Arduino Motor Shield Rev3 <https://store.arduino.cc/collections/shields/products/arduino-motor-shield-rev3>`_ |BR| |BR|
#. a supported **WiFi shield** |BR| We recommend the `EX-WiFi Shield 8266 (aka Makerfabs WiFi Shield) <https://www.tindie.com/products/dccex/ex-wifishield-8266-with-jumpers/>`_ or from `https://www.makerfabs.com/esp8266-wifi-shield.html>`_ |BR| |BR|
#. Two (2) Male to Female **Jumpers leads** |BR| |BR|
#. a 9-14v DC :doc:`power supply </reference/hardware/power-supplies>` for the motor shield |BR| We recommend `12V 5Amp Power Supply for the Track <https://www.amazon.com/LEDMO-Power-Supply-Transformers-Adapter/dp/B01461MOGQ/>`_ |BR| |BR|
#. a 2.5mm x 5.5mm Female DC Plug to **Screw Terminal (optional, but recommended)** to connect the motor shield power supply |BR| |BR|
#. a **7-9v DC power supply** |BR| for the Arduino - be sure it is **tip positive** such as `this one on amazon <https://www.amazon.com/Adapter-Arduino-Schwinn-Elliptical-Recumbent/dp/B06Y1LF8T5/ref=sr_1_2_sspa>`_ (while it is connected to the PC, this is not needed) NOTE: You do not need this power supply if you use the EX-MotorShield 8874. It powers the Arduino|BR| |BR|
#. any **computer** running Windows, macOS, or Linux (only needed for the initial install of the software) |BR| |BR|
#. a **USB Cable** from the computer to the Arduino |BR| |BR|
#. a **piece of track** to run trains or program on |BR| |BR|
#. some **wire** (18 to 16 AWG twisted pair recommended [#wire]_.) |BR| |BR|
#. a 'known' working **DCC-equipped locomotive**

.. warning::
  :class: warning-float-right-wide

  **Uno R4 is not supported** |BR| If you choose to purchase an Arduino Uno (not recommended), it is vital that you purchase the **Revision 3 (R3)** version, :dcc-ex-red-bold:`not` the **Revision 4 (R4)** version.  The |EX-CS| :dcc-ex-red-bold:`cannot run` on the R4 version.  :doc:`See here from more informtion</news/posts/20230728>`.

.. note:: 

  You can also find more detailed hardware information in the :doc:`/reference/hardware/index` section. Check our list of dealers to find some products locally to you.

|force-break|

Software
--------

Our |EX-I| app is recommended for most users as it automatically downloads and installs the required software. 

13. See the :doc:`Command Station download page </download/ex-commandstation>` to download a copy to your computer.

A Throttle (Controller)
-----------------------


14. You'll also need something to control your trains. |BR| There are several options. We will discuss these following the system setup, but the introductory configuration covered in the following pages lends itself to using a smart phone (Android or Apple iOS).

Next Steps
==========

Click the "next" button to see how to assemble your |EX-CS|.

----

.. [#wire] **Wire Gauge** - The recommended Arduino |Motor Driver| can only provide about 1.5 Amps of power (despite being rated for 2A), so 18 AWG wire is ample. If you use a different |Motor Driver| and deliver more current to your track, you may need thicker wire (lower number gauge).
