docs/throttles/locontrol.rst, before:

*******************
Locontrol
*******************

.. image:: ../_static/images/throttles/icon_ios.png
   :alt: iOS Logo
   :scale: 30%
   :align: left

This iOS App is simply beautiful, but you would expect this from a team of talented people consisting of an artist/graphic designer, an iOS Developer, and a User Interface (UI) Designer.

Today, you can use Locontrol on an iOS device connected to JMRI throuth its Web Interface. JMRI then connects to DCC++EX with a USB cable or wireless USB bridge.

We are currently working with the Locontrol folks to work directly with DCC++ EX without the need for external software. Come back soon for more information. In the meantime, please visit their website https://www.locontrol.com

.. image:: ../_static/images/throttles/locontrol1.jpg
   :alt: Locontrol Screenshot 1
   :scale: 100%

j
.. _locontrol-features:

Features
=========

* Connect to JMRI with the WiFi Web Server in DecoderPro
* Locomotive Roster list with Photos
* Uses the phone camera
* Make videos and take pictures of your trains while operating

.. _locontrol-requirements:

Requirements
=============

* An iOS Device

Commit message:

Add more to throttles pages

docs/throttles/locontrol.rst, after:

*******************
Locontrol
*******************

.. image:: ../_static/images/throttles/icon_ios.png
   :alt: iOS Logo
   :scale: 30%
   :align: left

This iOS App is simply beautiful, but you would expect this from a team of talented people consisting of an artist/graphic designer, an iOS Developer, and a User Interface (UI) Designer.

Today, you can use Locontrol on an iOS device connected to JMRI throuth its Web Interface. JMRI then connects to DCC++EX with a USB cable or wireless USB bridge.

We are currently working with the Locontrol folks to work directly with DCC++ EX without the need for external software. Come back soon for more information. In the meantime, please visit their website https://www.locontrol.com

`Get it on the Apple App Store <https://apps.apple.com/us/app/locontrol-dcc-controller/id1473757920>`_

.. image:: ../_static/images/throttles/locontrol1.jpg
   :alt: Locontrol Screenshot 1
   :scale: 100%

.. _locontrol-features:

Features
=========

* Connect to JMRI with the WiFi Web Server in DecoderPro
* Locomotive Roster list with Photos
* Uses the phone camera
* Make videos and take pictures of your trains while operating

.. _locontrol-requirements:

Requirements
=============

* An iOS Device

***TODO: More content coming soon***
