docs/throttles/software/index.rst, before:

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l2.rst
.. include:: /include/include-throttles.rst
|EX-THROTTLES-LOGO|

********************
Throttles (Software)
********************

|conductor| |tinkerer| |engineer|

Web Browser (Windows, OSX, Linux)
---------------------------------

- :doc:`EX-Web-Throttle (Web Browser) </ex-webthrottle/index>`

Android (Phones and Tablets)
----------------------------

- :doc:`Engine Driver (Android)<engine-driver>`
- :doc:`DCCpp CAB (android) <dccpp-cab>`
- :doc:`Cab Engineer: DCC Throttle (Andriod) <cab-engineer>`
- :doc:`DigiTrainsPro (Android) <digitrainspro>` *- Requires JMRI*
- :doc:`RtDtive DCC++ (Android) <rtdrive-dccpp>`

Apple iOS (Phones and Tablets)
------------------------------

- :doc:`Locontrol (iOS) <locontrol>` *- Requires JMRI*
- :doc:`DigiTrainsPro (Android) <digitrainspro>` *- Requires JMRI*
- :doc:`WiThrottle (iOS)<withrottle>`
- :doc:`SRCP Client (iOS) <srcpclient>`
- :doc:`Train Driver (iOS) <train-driver>`

Personal Computers
------------------

- :doc:`EX-WebThrottle </ex-webthrottle/index>`  *(Web Browser)*
- :doc:`JMRI (Windows, iOS, Linux) <jmri>`
- :doc:`Train Throttle (Windows) <train-throttle>`
- :doc:`DigiTrainsPro (Android) <digitrainspro>` *- Requires JMRI*


.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :hidden:
    
    EX-Web-Throttle (Web Browser) </ex-webthrottle/index>
    jmri
    Engine Driver (Android) <engine-driver>
    Train Throttle (Windows) <train-throttle>
    DCCpp CAB (android) <dccpp-cab>
    Cab Engineer: DCC Throttle (Android) <cab-engineer>
    DigiTrainsPro (Android, iOS, Windows) <digitrainspro>
    RtDtive DCC++ (Android) <rtdrive-dccpp>
    WiThrottle (iOS) <withrottle>
    Locontrol (iOS) <locontrol>
    SRCP Client (iOS) <srcpclient>
    Train Driver (iOS) <train-driver>

Commit message:

Android apps on Microsoft Windows

docs/throttles/software/index.rst, after:

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l2.rst
.. include:: /include/include-throttles.rst
|EX-THROTTLES-LOGO|

********************
Throttles (Software)
********************

|conductor| |tinkerer| |engineer|

Web Browser (Windows, OSX, Linux)
---------------------------------

- :doc:`EX-Web-Throttle (Web Browser) </ex-webthrottle/index>`

Android (Phones and Tablets)
----------------------------

- :doc:`Engine Driver (Android)<engine-driver>`
- :doc:`DCCpp CAB (android) <dccpp-cab>`
- :doc:`Cab Engineer: DCC Throttle (Andriod) <cab-engineer>`
- :doc:`DigiTrainsPro (Android) <digitrainspro>` *- Requires JMRI*
- :doc:`RtDtive DCC++ (Android) <rtdrive-dccpp>`

Apple iOS (Phones and Tablets)
------------------------------

- :doc:`Locontrol (iOS) <locontrol>` *- Requires JMRI*
- :doc:`DigiTrainsPro (Android) <digitrainspro>` *- Requires JMRI*
- :doc:`WiThrottle (iOS)<withrottle>`
- :doc:`SRCP Client (iOS) <srcpclient>`
- :doc:`Train Driver (iOS) <train-driver>`

Personal Computers
------------------

- :doc:`EX-WebThrottle </ex-webthrottle/index>`  *(Web Browser)*
- :doc:`JMRI (Windows, iOS, Linux) <jmri>`
- :doc:`Train Throttle (Windows) <train-throttle>`
- :doc:`DigiTrainsPro (Android) <digitrainspro>` *- Requires JMRI*

Note: The Android throttle apps listed above can be made to made to run on Windows PCs. See :doc:`Running Android apps on Microsoft Windows <android-apps-on-windows>`.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :hidden:
    
    EX-Web-Throttle (Web Browser) </ex-webthrottle/index>
    jmri
    Engine Driver (Android) <engine-driver>
    DCCpp CAB (android) <dccpp-cab>
    Cab Engineer: DCC Throttle (Android) <cab-engineer>
    DigiTrainsPro (Android, iOS, Windows) <digitrainspro>
    RtDtive DCC++ (Android) <rtdrive-dccpp>
    WiThrottle (iOS) <withrottle>
    Locontrol (iOS) <locontrol>
    SRCP Client (iOS) <srcpclient>
    Train Driver (iOS) <train-driver>
    Train Throttle (Windows) <train-throttle>
    Android Apps on Windows <android-apps-on-windows>
