docs/reference/downloads/documents.rst, before:

*********************
Documents
*********************

Stationary Decoder Address Table (xlsx Spreadsheet)
=====================================================

With DCC++EX's new linear address function, there is no need to have to convert back and forth between linear addresses and the 2-part address, subaddress format. However, if you use the old format or have a decoder to a switch that uses it, this table can come in handy.

.. raw:: html

  <a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/documents/DCCpp-stationary-decoder-addresses.xlsx">Stationary Decoder Address Table</a>

      
.. image:: ../../_static/documents/acc_conv_sheet_thumbnail.png
   :alt: Accessory conversion sheet thumbnail
   :scale: 30%
   :align: left 

|
|
|
|
|
|
|


DCC Shortcuts Card
===================

.. image:: ../../_static/documents/dcc_shortcuts_card_thumbnail.png
   :alt: DCC Shortcuts Card Thumbnail
   :scale: 26%
   :align: left   

.. raw:: html

   <a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/documents/DCC_Shortcuts_Card.pdf">DCC Shortcuts Card</a>

|
|
|
|
|
|


DCC++EX Commands Python Script for JMRI
========================================

This file installs in JMRI to allow it to display a DCC++ EX Command Reference through the Script Output Window in DecoderPro. Download, unzip and put the .py file in your JMRI script folder.

.. image:: ../../_static/documents/python_thumbnail.jpg
   :alt: DCC++EX JMRI script to display a command reference
   :scale: 75%
   :align: left
   
.. raw:: html

   <a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/documents/DCCEX_Commands_3.1.py.zip">DCC++ EX Commands JMRI Script</a>

|
|
|
|
|
|

Commit message:

Add to exrail pages, wifi-setup, add jmri script pdf and link

docs/reference/downloads/documents.rst, after:

*********************
Documents
*********************

Stationary Decoder Address Table (xlsx Spreadsheet)
=====================================================

With DCC++EX's new linear address function, there is no need to have to convert back and forth between linear addresses and the 2-part address, subaddress format. However, if you use the old format or have a decoder to a switch that uses it, this table can come in handy.

.. raw:: html

  <a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/documents/DCCpp-stationary-decoder-addresses.xlsx">Stationary Decoder Address Table</a>

      
.. image:: ../../_static/documents/acc_conv_sheet_thumbnail.png
   :alt: Accessory conversion sheet thumbnail
   :scale: 30%
   :align: left 

|
|
|
|
|
|
|


DCC Shortcuts Card
===================

.. image:: ../../_static/documents/dcc_shortcuts_card_thumbnail.png
   :alt: DCC Shortcuts Card Thumbnail
   :scale: 26%
   :align: left   

.. raw:: html

   <a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/documents/DCC_Shortcuts_Card.pdf">DCC Shortcuts Card</a>

|
|
|
|
|
|


Adding DCC++EX Panels and Buttons to JMRI PDF)
===============================================

This file provides instruction on how to install our custom scripts in JMRI and assign them to buttons. You can have the command references for DCC++ EX shown through the Script Output Window in DecoderPro. We also created buttons to open different JMRI Panels like Tools>Tables>
 Sensors,  Turnouts, Outputs. You can even use a button to start multiple EXRAIL Automation(n), Route(n) & Sequence(n) scripts from a JMRI GUI button on DecoderPro and PanelPro. Click the image to see the full size screenshot of JMRI.

.. image:: ../../_static/images/jmri/DCCEX_JMRI_Script_windows1.jpg
   :alt: DCC++EX JMRI script innstall instructions
   :scale: 25%
   :align: left
   
.. raw:: html

   <a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/documents/"DCCEX_31_JMRI_Script+Button_Instructions.pdf">DCC++ EX Commands JMRI Script</a>

|
|
|
|
|
|
