docs/support/wifi-at-version.rst, before:

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l2.rst
.. include:: /include/include-ex-cs.rst
.. meta::
   :keywords: WiFi setup Espressif AT version

|EX-CS-LOGO|

*******************************************************
ESP8266 (WiFi Boards) - AT Version Issues and Solutions
*******************************************************

|conductor| |Tinkerer| |engineer|

.. sidebar::

   .. contents:: On this page
      :local:
      :depth: 3

Unfortunately the Espressif ESP8266 based WiFi Boards that are available for sale routinely come with versions of the firmware that simply do not work with |EX-CS|. This now seems to include the recommended `Makerfabs ESP8266 WiFi Shield <https://www.makerfabs.com/esp8266-wifi-shield.html>`_.

Which is correct version of the AT firmware
===========================================

:dcc-ex-text-size-200pct:`ONLY Version 1.7.4 is known to work reliably.`  

That means all versions both before or after 1.7.4 are *not* suitable.  So don't be fooled in thinking that if it has a version later than that it will be ok.  **It won't!**

Symptoms of an Incorrect firmware Version
=========================================

There several common symptoms of a an incorrect firmware version:

* If you set up the command station in |Access Point mode|, then the SSID (Network Name) the displayed will be "DCCEX_SAYS_BROKEN_FIRMWARE" or "UPDATE_ESP_FIRMWARE".
* You can't connect to the displayed Access Point.
* Your phone can connect to the Access Point, but can't connect your WiFi throttle (e.g. Engine Driver or wiThrottle) to the |EX-CS|. 
* You can connect and use a phone once, but it will not connect again unless you re-start the |EX-CS|.
* You can connect and use one phone, but it will not allow connection of a second phone, or the second phone works, but it disconnects the first phone.

|hr-heavy|

Find Your AT Version
====================

It is important to find out which version of the firmware you board has and correct it if necessary.

There are two basic ways that you can check:

* :ref:`AFTER you load the EX-CommandStation software <support/wifi-at-version:Checking AFTER you load the EX-CommandStation software>`
* :ref:`BEFORE you load the EX-CommandStation software <support/wifi-at-version:Checking BEFORE you load the EX-CommandStation software>`

----

Checking AFTER you load the EX-CommandStation software
--------------------------------------------------------

One you have loaded the |EX-CS| software you will be able to see the AT version in the start-up log by connecting the serial monitor in either the |EX-I| or **Arduino IDE** (whichever you used to upload the |EX-CS| onto your device).

You can check the AT version two ways. Which is best for you depends on how you loaded the |EX-CS| software:

* :ref:`Using EX-Installer <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version using EX-Installer>`
* :ref:`Using the Arduino IDE <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version with the Arduino IDE>`

|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version using EX-Installer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once you have successfully loaded the |EX-CS| software:

1. Click back through the pages of the |EX-I| till you get to the 'Select your Device' screen
2. Click on the :guilabel:`View device monitor` button |BR| A new window will open and a lot of text will appear
3. You need to look for a line that will have a section highlighted in green

e.g. ``AT version:1.7.4.0(May 11 2020 19:13:04)``

Alternately, you can enter the command ``<+GMR>`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.  A similar line will be shown.

If it says **anything other than** 1.7.4 in that line, then you have the wrong version you will need to :ref:`follow the instructions at the end of this page <support/wifi-at-version:What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version>` to correct it.

|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version with the Arduino IDE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you loaded the |EX-CS| software using the Arduino, once you have successfully loaded the |EX-CS| software:

1. select **Tools** -> **Serial monitor** from the menus
2. A new pane will open at the bottom of the IDE window will open and a lot of text will appear
3. you need to look for a line similar to the following

e.g. ``AT version:1.7.4.0(May 11 2020 19:13:04)``

Alternately, you can enter the command ``<+GMR>`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.  A similar line will be shown.

If it says **anything other than** 1.7.4 in that line, then you have the wrong version you will need to :ref:`follow the instructions at the end of this page <support/wifi-at-version:What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version>` to correct it.

|hr-heavy|

Checking BEFORE you load the EX-CommandStation software
-------------------------------------------------------

How to check before you load the |EX-CS| software will depend on which WiFi shield or board you are using:

* :ref:`ESP-01 or ESP-01s <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 or ESP-01s>`
* :ref:`Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version of a Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield>`
* :ref:`Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion board <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version of a Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board>`
* :ref:`Mega+WiF board <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version of a Mega+WiFi>`

----

Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 or ESP-01s
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: /_static/images/esp-01/esp-01.png
   :alt: ESP-01
   :scale: 20%

   ESP-01

There are a number of ways that you can check the AT version an a ESP-01 or ESP-01s:

* with a USB Serial Adapter
* with a USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter
* with a Arduino Uno

|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 with a USB Serial Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/CH340G-USB-to-TTL(serial)-converter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: CH340G USB to TTL(serial) Converter
   :scale: 35%

1. Connect the ESP01 to the serial adapter with the instructions on here: https://remotexy.com/en/help/esp8266-firmware-update (see the section on 'Connection via the USB-UARt adapter') |BR| Note the orange wire is not needed for checking the AT version.
2. Plug the serial adapter it the PC
3. Open the Arduino IDE 
4. Select **Tools** -> **Serial monitor** from the menus
5. Select baud: ``115200`` and ``Both NL & CR``
6. A new pane will open at the bottom of the IDE window will open
7. Enter the command ``AT+RST`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.
8. Enter the command ``AT+GMR`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.

It will reply with something like ``AT version:1.7.4.0(May 11 2020 19:13:04)``

If it says **anything other than** 1.7.4 in that line, then you have the wrong version you will need to :ref:`follow the instructions at the end of this page <support/wifi-at-version:What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version>` to correct it.

|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 a with a USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. todo:: `Checking AT version with a USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter prior to upload`

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01-adapter-early.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Early ESP-01 USB adapter
   :scale: 20%

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01-adapter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: ESP-01 USB adapter
   :scale: 25%

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01s-adapter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: ESP-01s USB adapter
   :scale: 20%

1. Connect the ESP01 to the adapter
2. Plug the adapter it the PC
3. Open the Arduino IDE 
4. Select **Tools** -> **Serial monitor** from the menus
5. Select baud: ``115200`` and ``Both NL & CR``
6. A new pane will open at the bottom of the IDE window will open
7. Enter the command ``AT+RST`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.
8. Enter the command ``AT+GMR`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.

It will reply with something like ``AT version:1.7.4.0(May 11 2020 19:13:04)``

If it says **anything other than** 1.7.4 in that line, then you have the wrong version you will need to :ref:`follow the instructions at the end of this page <support/wifi-at-version:What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version>` to correct it.


|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 a with a Arduino Uno
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. todo:: `Checking AT version with a Arduino Uno prior to upload`

----

Checking the AT version of a Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /_static/images/wifi/makerfabs-esp8266-wifi-shield.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Makefabs ESP8266 WiFi Shield
   :scale: 25%

.. todo:: `Checking AT version ESP8266 Wifi Shield prior to upload`

|force-break|

-----

Checking the AT version of a Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /_static/images/wifi/duinopeak.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board
   :scale: 25%

.. todo:: `Checking AT version ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board prior to upload`

|force-break|

----

Checking the AT version of a Mega+WiFi
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /_static/images/assembly/mega_wifi.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Mega + WiFi
   :scale: 25%

.. todo:: `Checking AT version Mega+WiFi prior to upload`

|force-break|

|hr-heavy|

|hr-heavy|

What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version
====================================================

The steps necessary to correct the AT version will depend on your hardware:

* :ref:`ESP-01 or ESP-01s <support/wifi-at-version:Correcting the AT version on a ESP-01>`
* :ref:`Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield <support/wifi-at-version:Correcting the AT version on a Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield>`
* :ref:`Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion board <support/wifi-at-version:Correcting the AT version on a Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board>`
* :ref:`Mega+WiF board <support/wifi-at-version:Correcting the AT version on a Mega+WiFi>`

We strongly recommend upgrading or downgrading to the "NonOS AT" version 1.7.4 available on our :doc:`/download/esp8266` download page **prior** to reaching out for support from the team.

----

Correcting the AT version on a ESP-01
-------------------------------------

Correcting the AT version of a ESP-01or ESP01s requires additional hardware. One of following is required:

* A USB to ESP-01 Adapter
* A USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter
* An Arduino Uno

|hr-dashed|

Correcting a ESP-01 with a USB Serial Adapter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/CH340G-USB-to-TTL(serial)-converter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: CH340G USB to TTL(serial) Converter
   :scale: 35%

See https://remotexy.com/en/help/esp8266-firmware-update/

|force-break|

|hr-dashed|

Correcting a ESP-01 with a USB to ESP-01 Adapter Board
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Correcting a ESP-01 or ESP-01s with a USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01-adapter-early.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Early ESP-01 USB adapter
   :scale: 20%

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01-adapter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: ESP-01 USB adapter
   :scale: 25%

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01s-adapter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: ESP-01s USB adapter
   :scale: 20%

The early/normal boards needs to be modified to be able to temporarily connect GND to GPIO 0.

See here for the modification needed https://www.mogtour.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/ch340g.pdf

Later boards do not require the modification.

See https://www.allaboutcircuits.com/projects/update-the-firmware-in-your-esp8266-wi-fi-module/

|force-break|

|hr-dashed|

Correcting a ESP-01 with a Arduino Uno
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See https://cordobo.com/2300-flash-esp8266-01-with-arduino-uno/

Or https://remotexy.com/en/help/esp8266-firmware-update/

|force-break|

----

Correcting the AT version on a Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield
------------------------------------------------------------

.. image:: /_static/images/wifi/makerfabs-esp8266-wifi-shield.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Makefabs ESP8266 WiFi Shield
   :scale: 25%

..
   Correcting the Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield With a Makerfabs' CP2104 USB to Serial Converter Arduino Programmer
   ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   .. figure:: /_static/images/wifi/CP2104-USB-to-Serial-Converter-Arduino-Programmer.png
      :alt: CP2104 USB to Serial Converter Arduino Programmer
      :scale: 30%

      CP2104 USB to Serial Converter Arduino Programmer

   Flashing the ESP8266 Wifi Shield using Makerfabs' own **CP2104 USB to Serial Converter Arduino Programmer** is covered :doc:`here </support/makerfabs-update-at-version-with-usb-to-ttl>`.

   |hr-dashed|


Correcting the Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield With a USB to TTL Converter Module Adapter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See https://gist.github.com/nathankellenicki/7008540322c617869cec17226cff579d   

|force-break|

----

Correcting the AT version on a Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board 
---------------------------------------------------------------------

.. image:: /_static/images/wifi/duinopeak.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board
   :scale: 25%

.. todo:: `Correcting AT version Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board`

|force-break|

----

Correcting the AT version on a Mega+WiFi
----------------------------------------

.. image:: /_static/images/assembly/mega_wifi.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Mega + WiFi
   :scale: 25%

Flashing the ESP8266 chip on a Mega+WiFi is covered in detail :doc:`here </reference/hardware/microcontrollers/wifi-mega>`.

|force-break|

Commit message:

Makerfabs ESP8266 - Update AT Version with an Arduino Mega

docs/support/wifi-at-version.rst, after:

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l2.rst
.. include:: /include/include-ex-cs.rst
.. meta::
   :keywords: WiFi setup Espressif AT version

|EX-CS-LOGO|

*******************************************************
ESP8266 (WiFi Boards) - AT Version Issues and Solutions
*******************************************************

|conductor| |Tinkerer| |engineer|

.. sidebar::

   .. contents:: On this page
      :local:
      :depth: 3

Unfortunately the Espressif ESP8266 based WiFi Boards that are available for sale routinely come with versions of the firmware that simply do not work with |EX-CS|. This now seems to include the recommended `Makerfabs ESP8266 WiFi Shield <https://www.makerfabs.com/esp8266-wifi-shield.html>`_.

Which is correct version of the AT firmware
===========================================

:dcc-ex-text-size-200pct:`ONLY Version 1.7.4 is known to work reliably.`  

That means all versions both before or after 1.7.4 are *not* suitable.  So don't be fooled in thinking that if it has a version later than that it will be ok.  **It won't!**

Symptoms of an Incorrect firmware Version
=========================================

There several common symptoms of a an incorrect firmware version:

* If you set up the command station in |Access Point mode|, then the SSID (Network Name) the displayed will be "DCCEX_SAYS_BROKEN_FIRMWARE" or "UPDATE_ESP_FIRMWARE".
* You can't connect to the displayed Access Point.
* Your phone can connect to the Access Point, but can't connect your WiFi throttle (e.g. Engine Driver or wiThrottle) to the |EX-CS|. 
* You can connect and use a phone once, but it will not connect again unless you re-start the |EX-CS|.
* You can connect and use one phone, but it will not allow connection of a second phone, or the second phone works, but it disconnects the first phone.

|hr-heavy|

Find Your AT Version
====================

It is important to find out which version of the firmware you board has and correct it if necessary.

There are two basic ways that you can check:

* :ref:`AFTER you load the EX-CommandStation software <support/wifi-at-version:Checking AFTER you load the EX-CommandStation software>`
* :ref:`BEFORE you load the EX-CommandStation software <support/wifi-at-version:Checking BEFORE you load the EX-CommandStation software>`

----

Checking AFTER you load the EX-CommandStation software
--------------------------------------------------------

One you have loaded the |EX-CS| software you will be able to see the AT version in the start-up log by connecting the serial monitor in either the |EX-I| or **Arduino IDE** (whichever you used to upload the |EX-CS| onto your device).

You can check the AT version two ways. Which is best for you depends on how you loaded the |EX-CS| software:

* :ref:`Using EX-Installer <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version using EX-Installer>`
* :ref:`Using the Arduino IDE <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version with the Arduino IDE>`

|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version using EX-Installer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once you have successfully loaded the |EX-CS| software:

1. Click back through the pages of the |EX-I| till you get to the 'Select your Device' screen
2. Click on the :guilabel:`View device monitor` button |BR| A new window will open and a lot of text will appear
3. You need to look for a line that will have a section highlighted in green

e.g. ``AT version:1.7.4.0(May 11 2020 19:13:04)``

Alternately, you can enter the command ``<+GMR>`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.  A similar line will be shown.

If it says **anything other than** 1.7.4 in that line, then you have the wrong version you will need to :ref:`follow the instructions at the end of this page <support/wifi-at-version:What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version>` to correct it.

|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version with the Arduino IDE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you loaded the |EX-CS| software using the Arduino, once you have successfully loaded the |EX-CS| software:

1. select **Tools** -> **Serial monitor** from the menus
2. A new pane will open at the bottom of the IDE window will open and a lot of text will appear
3. you need to look for a line similar to the following

e.g. ``AT version:1.7.4.0(May 11 2020 19:13:04)``

Alternately, you can enter the command ``<+GMR>`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.  A similar line will be shown.

If it says **anything other than** 1.7.4 in that line, then you have the wrong version you will need to :ref:`follow the instructions at the end of this page <support/wifi-at-version:What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version>` to correct it.

|hr-heavy|

Checking BEFORE you load the EX-CommandStation software
-------------------------------------------------------

How to check before you load the |EX-CS| software will depend on which WiFi shield or board you are using:

* :ref:`ESP-01 or ESP-01s <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 or ESP-01s>`
* :ref:`Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version of a Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield>`
* :ref:`Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion board <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version of a Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board>`
* :ref:`Mega+WiF board <support/wifi-at-version:Checking the AT version of a Mega+WiFi>`

----

Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 or ESP-01s
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: /_static/images/esp-01/esp-01.png
   :alt: ESP-01
   :scale: 20%

   ESP-01

There are a number of ways that you can check the AT version an a ESP-01 or ESP-01s:

* with a USB Serial Adapter
* with a USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter
* with a Arduino Uno

|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 with a USB Serial Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/CH340G-USB-to-TTL(serial)-converter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: CH340G USB to TTL(serial) Converter
   :scale: 35%

1. Connect the ESP01 to the serial adapter with the instructions on here: https://remotexy.com/en/help/esp8266-firmware-update (see the section on 'Connection via the USB-UARt adapter') |BR| Note the orange wire is not needed for checking the AT version.
2. Plug the serial adapter it the PC
3. Open the Arduino IDE 
4. Select **Tools** -> **Serial monitor** from the menus
5. Select baud: ``115200`` and ``Both NL & CR``
6. A new pane will open at the bottom of the IDE window will open
7. Enter the command ``AT+RST`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.
8. Enter the command ``AT+GMR`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.

It will reply with something like ``AT version:1.7.4.0(May 11 2020 19:13:04)``

If it says **anything other than** 1.7.4 in that line, then you have the wrong version you will need to :ref:`follow the instructions at the end of this page <support/wifi-at-version:What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version>` to correct it.

|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 a with a USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. todo:: `Checking AT version with a USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter prior to upload`

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01-adapter-early.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Early ESP-01 USB adapter
   :scale: 20%

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01-adapter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: ESP-01 USB adapter
   :scale: 25%

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01s-adapter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: ESP-01s USB adapter
   :scale: 20%

1. Connect the ESP01 to the adapter
2. Plug the adapter it the PC
3. Open the Arduino IDE 
4. Select **Tools** -> **Serial monitor** from the menus
5. Select baud: ``115200`` and ``Both NL & CR``
6. A new pane will open at the bottom of the IDE window will open
7. Enter the command ``AT+RST`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.
8. Enter the command ``AT+GMR`` and click :guilabel:`Send`.

It will reply with something like ``AT version:1.7.4.0(May 11 2020 19:13:04)``

If it says **anything other than** 1.7.4 in that line, then you have the wrong version you will need to :ref:`follow the instructions at the end of this page <support/wifi-at-version:What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version>` to correct it.


|hr-dashed|

Checking the AT version of a ESP-01 a with a Arduino Uno
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. todo:: `Checking AT version with a Arduino Uno prior to upload`

----

Checking the AT version of a Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /_static/images/wifi/makerfabs-esp8266-wifi-shield.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Makefabs ESP8266 WiFi Shield
   :scale: 25%

.. todo:: `Checking AT version ESP8266 Wifi Shield prior to upload`

|force-break|

-----

Checking the AT version of a Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /_static/images/wifi/duinopeak.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board
   :scale: 25%

.. todo:: `Checking AT version ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board prior to upload`

|force-break|

----

Checking the AT version of a Mega+WiFi
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /_static/images/assembly/mega_wifi.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Mega + WiFi
   :scale: 25%

.. todo:: `Checking AT version Mega+WiFi prior to upload`

|force-break|

|hr-heavy|

|hr-heavy|

What to do if you have the wrong AT Firmware version
====================================================

The steps necessary to correct the AT version will depend on your hardware:

* :ref:`ESP-01 or ESP-01s <support/wifi-at-version:Correcting the AT version on a ESP-01>`
* :ref:`Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield <support/wifi-at-version:Correcting the AT version on a Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield>`
* :ref:`Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion board <support/wifi-at-version:Correcting the AT version on a Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board>`
* :ref:`Mega+WiF board <support/wifi-at-version:Correcting the AT version on a Mega+WiFi>`

We strongly recommend upgrading or downgrading to the "NonOS AT" version 1.7.4 available on our :doc:`/download/esp8266` download page **prior** to reaching out for support from the team.

----

Correcting the AT version on a ESP-01
-------------------------------------

Correcting the AT version of a ESP-01or ESP01s requires additional hardware. One of following is required:

* A USB to ESP-01 Adapter
* A USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter
* An Arduino Uno

|hr-dashed|

Correcting a ESP-01 with a USB Serial Adapter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/CH340G-USB-to-TTL(serial)-converter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: CH340G USB to TTL(serial) Converter
   :scale: 35%

See https://remotexy.com/en/help/esp8266-firmware-update/

|force-break|

|hr-dashed|

Correcting a ESP-01 with a USB to ESP-01 Adapter Board
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Correcting a ESP-01 or ESP-01s with a USB to TTL CH340G Converter Module Adapter

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01-adapter-early.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Early ESP-01 USB adapter
   :scale: 20%

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01-adapter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: ESP-01 USB adapter
   :scale: 25%

.. image:: /_static/images/esp-01/USB-to-ESP-01s-adapter.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: ESP-01s USB adapter
   :scale: 20%

The early/normal boards needs to be modified to be able to temporarily connect GND to GPIO 0.

See here for the modification needed https://www.mogtour.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/ch340g.pdf

Later boards do not require the modification.

See https://www.allaboutcircuits.com/projects/update-the-firmware-in-your-esp8266-wi-fi-module/

|force-break|

|hr-dashed|

Correcting a ESP-01 with a Arduino Uno
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See https://cordobo.com/2300-flash-esp8266-01-with-arduino-uno/

Or https://remotexy.com/en/help/esp8266-firmware-update/

|force-break|

----

Correcting the AT version on a Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield
------------------------------------------------------------

.. image:: /_static/images/wifi/makerfabs-esp8266-wifi-shield.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Makefabs ESP8266 WiFi Shield
   :scale: 25%

|hr-dashed|

Correcting the Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield With an Arduino Mega
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Flashing the ESP8266 Wifi Shield :doc:`using an Arduino Mega is covered here </support/makerfabs-update-at-version-with-mega>`.

|hr-dashed|

..
   Correcting the Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield With a Makerfabs' CP2104 USB to Serial Converter Arduino Programmer
   ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   .. figure:: /_static/images/wifi/CP2104-USB-to-Serial-Converter-Arduino-Programmer.png
      :alt: CP2104 USB to Serial Converter Arduino Programmer
      :scale: 30%

      CP2104 USB to Serial Converter Arduino Programmer

   Flashing the ESP8266 Wifi Shield using Makerfabs' own **CP2104 USB to Serial Converter Arduino Programmer** is covered :doc:`here </support/makerfabs-update-at-version-with-usb-to-ttl>`.

   |hr-dashed|


Correcting the Makerfabs ESP8266 Wifi Shield With a USB to TTL Converter Module Adapter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See https://gist.github.com/nathankellenicki/7008540322c617869cec17226cff579d   

|force-break|

----

Correcting the AT version on a Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board 
---------------------------------------------------------------------

.. image:: /_static/images/wifi/duinopeak.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board
   :scale: 25%

.. todo:: `Correcting AT version Duinopeak ESP8266 WiFi Expansion Board`

|force-break|

----

Correcting the AT version on a Mega+WiFi
----------------------------------------

.. image:: /_static/images/assembly/mega_wifi.png
   :class: image-float-right
   :alt: Mega + WiFi
   :scale: 25%

Flashing the ESP8266 chip on a Mega+WiFi is covered in detail :doc:`here </reference/hardware/microcontrollers/wifi-mega>`.

|force-break|
