docs/ex-toolbox/overview.rst, before:

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l1.rst

|EX-TB-LOGO|

*********************
EX-Toolbox - Overview
*********************

|tinkerer|

|EX-TB| is a free, open source, Android app to help setup and configure your |EX-CS|. It is intended for setup, configuration, debugging you Command Station rather than continuous use.

It can only function if your |EX-CS| is configured with wifi (either Access Point mode or Station mode). It cannot connect to a |EX-CS| though USB, wired Ethernet or JMRI.

.. image:: /_static/images/ex-toolbox/ex_toolbox_icon.png
   :alt: EX-Toolbox
   :scale: 25%
   :align: right

|EX-Tb| is installed on you phone or tablet from the Play Store.

With |EX-TB| you can perform:

* CV Programming in the programming track (Service Mode)
* CV Programming in the main track (Operation Mode)
* Servo motor testing and adjustment
* Sensor testing 
* Current Meter (Only available when connected to EX-CommandStation version 4.2.20 and above.)
* Track Manager (Only available when connected to EX-CommandStation version 4.2.7 and above.)

Commit message:

socat option for EX-Toolbox

docs/ex-toolbox/overview.rst, after:

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l1.rst

|EX-TB-LOGO|

*********************
EX-Toolbox - Overview
*********************

|tinkerer|

|EX-TB| is a free, open source, Android app to help setup and configure your |EX-CS|. It is intended for setup, configuration, debugging you Command Station rather than continuous use.

It is designed to function if your |EX-CS| is configured with wifi (either Access Point mode or Station mode) or Ethernet. It can't connect to a |EX-CS| though JMRI.  

It can't normally connect to a |EX-CS| though USB, however there some options that can allow this to work partly.  See :ref:`ex-toolbox/using:connecting via usb` for details.


.. image:: /_static/images/ex-toolbox/ex_toolbox_icon.png
   :alt: EX-Toolbox
   :scale: 25%
   :align: right

|EX-TB| is installed on you phone or tablet from the Play Store.

With |EX-TB| you can perform:

* CV Programming in the programming track (Service Mode)
* CV Programming in the main track (Operation Mode)
* Servo motor testing and adjustment
* Sensor testing 
* Current Meter (Only available when connected to EX-CommandStation version 4.2.20 and above.)
* Track Manager (Only available when connected to EX-CommandStation version 4.2.7 and above.)
