docs/advanced-setup/supported-microcontrollers/wifi-mega.rst, before:

**************************
Mega+WiFi Configuration
**************************

.. image:: ../../_static/images/tinkerer.png
   :alt: Tinkerer Icon
   :scale: 50%
   :align: left

Tinkerer Level

|

A Operational Standalone WiFI DCC Command Station
==================================================

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/mega_wifi.png
   :alt: Mega WiFi
   :scale: 40%
   :align: center

   figure 1 - Mega+WiFi Board

This is a combination of a Mega Clone and an ESP8266 WiFi chip on one board. Our guess is that like many boards made in China, this is only made by one or two factories, but sold under several names. Search for WiFi+Mega or ATmega2560+ESP8266. Here are some of the brands. Links to some supplers are at the bottom of this page:

* Wemos
* RobotDyn
* Geekcreit


What You Will Need
-------------------

This is our tested and proven configuration

* DCC++EX 3.0.6 or greater
* ATMega2560 + ESP8266 WiFI - Combo Board
* Deek Robot L298P Standard Motor Shield (or other `approved motor controller <../../reference/hardware/motor-boards.html>`_)
* 12-16V DC Laptop power supply to the Motor Shield (16V provides 14.5Vdc to the tracks for HO Gauge)*
* 7-9V DC power supply to the ATmega boards with a female 2.1mm power barrel plug
* Android Smartphone with Engine Driver v2.28.123 or iOS Smarphone with WiThrottle
* USB-A male to Micro USB-B cable

\* NOTE: The L298 Based motor drivers like the Arduino Motor Shield have a 1.5-2V voltage drop. More efficient boards do not have this issue. Be careful in choosing the correct voltage so that you don't put too much voltage on the track and potentially damage your decoders.

What You Will Do
------------------

1. Download the ESP Files
2. Flash the ESP8266 chip
3. Edit your config file and Load the DCC++EX v3.0.6 to the Mega2560 chip
4. Setup your Throttle

.. Note:: This board uses a Micro-USB connector instead of the USB-B printer type connector used on regular Arduino Boards. It also uses the CH340G USB to Serial Driver chip instead of the FTDI on Arduino brands, so may require you to install a driver.

1. Plug in and test your Mega
------------------------------

Plug your board into your computer with a USB micro cable to see if it is recognized. These boards use a CH340 UART (The USB controller) instead of the ones on an Arduino brand Uno or Mega. If you have never plugged anything into your computer with this chip on it before, you are going to have to install a driver. On Windows, you can go to device manager and open the ports tree item. Look for "CH340" or "CH341".

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/ch340_driver.png
   :alt: CH340 Recognized
   :scale: 100%
   :align: center

   figure 2 - CH340 Recognized 

If you don't see the CH340 with the Mega plugged into USB, download and install the drivers from here:

http://www.wch-ic.com/downloads/CH341SER_ZIP.html

Once you can see your computer recognizes your board, **remember the port**. For a PC running windows, it will be something like "COM24" as in the picture above. For a Mac, it will be something like "/dev/cu.wchusbserial*****", and for Linux it will look like "/dev/ttyUSBx". Write it down. 

**Unplug the Mega.**

For more detail on how to install the correct CH340 drivers for your OS, you can see this `Sparkfun Tutorial <https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/how-to-install-ch340-drivers/all>`_

2. Download and install the flash download tool
------------------------------------------------

There are two tools you can use to flash the firmware, one is the **"Expressif Flash Download tool"** for Windows and the other is a Python script called **esptool** that will run on Windows, Mac, or Linux. Follow the path for the flash tool you choose.

Using the Flash Download Tool (Windows)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download the Flash Download Tool and the ESP8266_NONOS_AT_Bin_v1.7.4 firmware files by clicking on the buttons below. Unzip them wherever you like:

.. raw:: html

   <p><a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/files/esp8266/flash_download_tool_v3.8.5.zip">Flash Download tool</a></p>
  

.. raw:: html
  
   <p><a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/files/esp8266/ESP8266_NonOS_AT_Bin_V1.7.4.zip">ESP8266 Firmware Zipped</a></p>

|

Using esptool.py (Windows, Mac, Linux)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download the ESP8266_NONOS_AT_BIN_v1.7.4 firmware files by clicking the button below:

.. raw:: html
   
   <p><a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/files/esp8266/ESP8266_NonOS_AT_Bin_V1.7.4.zip">ESP8266 Firmware Zipped</a></p>

Install python if you don't already have it installed. This quick quide shows you how to check if you already have Python and how to install it if you don't:

https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide/Download

Once you have Python installed, you will need to install etptool.py. Open a command prompt and use pip (or Homebrew on a MacOS) to find and install it from the web:

.. code-block::

   $ pip install esptool

NOTE:with some Python installations that command may not work and you’ll receive an error. If that’s the case, try to install esptool.py with one of the following:

| pip3 install esptool
| python -m pip install esptool
| pip2 install esptool

When that is installed, install setup tools:

.. code-block::

   $ pip install setuptools

3. Set the switches on your Mega for flashing
-----------------------------------------------

With the Mega UNPLUGGED (no power connected!), you will set some switches. Use the following diagram to see the locations on the board. You can click on any picture to enlarge it.

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/mega_wifi1.png
   :alt: Mega WiFi Switch Locations
   :scale: 50%
   :align: center

   Figure 3 - Important Board Locations

Note that switch 8 is not connected to anything, you don't need to touch it. With a toothpick or jewelers screwdriver, very gently set your dip switches, it is easy to break them. Use this diagram to set your dip switches, **ON is up in this picture. Switches 5,6, and 7 are on**.

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/mega_wifi_sw_flash.png
   :alt: Switches in flash mode
   :scale: 30%
   :align: center

   Figure 4 - Switch Settings for Flashing

Configure the board as follows:

 -  set dip switches **5,6,7 ON** (1,2,3,4 OFF)
 -  set Serial Port (TX/RX) Slide Pin to **RxD3 & TxD3**
 -  Connect Mega+WiFI board to your computer with the USB cable
 -  press the **Mode button**

4. Flash the Firmware
------------------------

With the Flash Download Tool
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
 
Run the Flasher Tool 
"""""""""""""""""""""""

NOTE: It may take a few seconds to open while you see a black cmd window

- press [Developer Mode] button
- Press [ESP8266 Download Tool] button

.. image:: ../../_static/images/wifi/download_tool_dev_mode.jpg
   :alt: Flasher Tool Buttons
   :scale: 80%
   :align: left

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/download_tool_esp8266.jpg
   :alt: Flasher Tool Buttons 2
   :scale: 80%
   :align: left

   Figure 5 - Flash Tool Button Selections

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|


Setup the files and memory locations in the Flasher Tool
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

- Click on the each file button (the "..." buttons) and find the bin files you extracted.
- Follow Figure 6 and pay close attention setting up the Exact `*.bin` Files & locations 0xYYYYYYYY
- Make sure to check all the file checkboxes to the left of the filled in file names
- Set the EXACT settings using the radio buttons & baud rate settings: (26M, 40MHz, DIO, 16Mbit-C1, Your COM port selected, and 460800 baud).

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/flasher_1.png
   :alt: Flasher Settings Screen
   :scale: 80%
   :align: center

   Figure 6 - Flasher Settings Screen

.. NOTE:: These settings are for the ESP8266EX chip on the Mega+Wifi, you may need different settings to flash an ESP-01s, ESP12, etc.

- First press the **Erase button** and let the ESP erase the chip memory.   
- Then press the **Start button** and the bin files will flash (load) onto the ESP-WiFi chip

After flashing, the ESP8266 Log will show it uploaded them all successfully and it closes the port.

- Disconnect the USB cable.

Skip ahead to :ref:`3. Set the switches for run/sketch mode`

With esptool.py
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Unzip the firmware files and put them in a folder so that they are easy to find. Go to a command prompt (Windows Key+R then type "cmd" and click OK, or run "terminal" on MacOS) and navigate to the folder where you unzipped the firmware files. Execute the full command below from the prompt. Esptool.py should be in your path and will automatically find your ESP8266 if it is connected. If it does not find your ESP, see the examples for how to select the port.


``esptool.py write_flash --flash_mode dio --flash_size 2MB-c1 0x0 boot_v1.7.bin 0x01000 at/1024+1024/user1.2048.new.5.bin 0x1fb000 blank.bin 0x1fc000 esp_init_data_default_v08.bin 0xfe000 blank.bin 0x1fe000 blank.bin``


Examples with port specified: 

esptool.py -p /dev/ttyUSB0 write_flash --flash_mode dio --flash_size 2MB-c1 0x0 boot_v1.7.bin 0x01000 at/1023+1024/user1.2048.new.5.bin 0x1fc000 esp_init_data_default_v08.bin 0xfe000 blank.bin 0x1fe000 blank.bin

esptool.exe -p COM5 --baud 115200 write_flash --flash_size 2MB-c1 0x0 boot_v1.7.bin 0x01000 at/1024+1024/user1.2048.new.5.bin 0x1fb000 blank.bin 0x1fc000 esp_init_data_default_v08.bin 0xfe000 blank.bin 0x1fe000 blank.bin

If there is an error, press and hold the mode button, then press and release the reset button while still holding down the mode button. Press enter to send the esptool command and let go of the mode button.



3. Set the switches for run/sketch mode
==========================================

With the power disconnected from the Mega, set the switches back to the upload/run mode
- dip switches 5,6,7 OFF and 1,2,3,4 ON
- (Leave the TX/RX slide Pin on RxD3 TxD3)
- re-connect the USB cable

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/mega_wifi_sw_run.png
   :alt: Switches in flash mode
   :scale: 30%
   :align: center

   Figure 7 - Switch Settings for sketch load/run

4. Decide if you want AP Mode or Station Mode
==============================================

AP Mode (the default) makes the Command Station an Access Point. That is a direct connection from your Throttle (Phone) to the CS as a Local Intranet. There is no Internet access.  Station Mode connects the CS to your local WiFi Router With Internet access. You then have to know the IP address your router assigns to the CS so your Throttles can find it on your network.

If you choose to use AP mode, there is nothing you need to do. Just make sure you select the network checkbox in the installer or rename the config.example.h file to config.h and install DCC++EX. Go directly to setp 5.

If you are going to want to connect to your WiFi router, you just need to enter your login information. Take a look at the :ref:`Short Version of Network Setup` below before proceeding to step 5. But keep in mind, you can always install, make changes, and install again.


5. Download and Configure the DCC++EX Command Station Software
================================================================

Download and install DCC++EX from by using the Automated exInstaller or using the Arduino IDE by choosing one of the links below.

`How to install using the installer <../../get-started/installer.html>`_

`How to install using the Arduino IDE <../../get-started/arduino-ide.html>`_

`I know what I'm doing, just point me to the downloads page! <../../download/commandstation.html>`_

Short Version of Network Setup
===============================

`Long/Detailed Network Setup HERE <../../advanced-setup/wifi-config.html>`_

All settings are in the config.h file in your CommandStation-EX folder. If you don't have a config.h, rename config.example.h to config.h.

**First, make sure your dip switches are set with 1,2,3,4 ON and 5,6,7 OFF (8 doesn't matter)**

Setting up in Access Point AP Mode
-----------------------------------

- If using the installer, just check the WiFi check box and leave SSID and password alone
  
- If using the Arduino IDE,Make sure you didn't put "//" in front of the `#define ENABLE_WIFI true` line in your config.h file
- No additional changes required, Leave SSID & Passwd alone
- Your ESP-Wifi chip will assign a SSID as DCCEX_xxxxxx and PASS_xxxxxx, Where xxxxxx is the last 6 characters of your ESP8266 MAC Address
- Upload the software to your Mega+WiFi (see Compile and Re-upload below)

Setting up WiFi in Station (STA) Mode with Router
--------------------------------------------------

- This mode is also sometimes called "Client" mode

- If using the installer, select the WiFi Checkbox and enter the name (SSID) of your network and the password to log into it.

- If using the Arduino IDE open the CommandStation-EX.ino file in the Arduino IDE program then
- Open, then Edit & change the new config.h file to your local or home Router's SSID & Password.
  
  - Change `#define WIFI_SSID "Your network name"` to the name of your local network.
  - Change `#define WIFI_PASSWORD "Your network passwd"` to the password for your network.

6. Compile and Re-upload DCC-EX to the Arduino
===============================================

- If using the Arduino IDE, select ATMega2560 board from the "tools, boards" menu.
- Select the correct COM port that sees your Mega and set baud rate to 115200
- Click the upload button (the arrow pointing to the right near the checkmark in the upper left of the program window)

7. Operate Your Command Station
================================

After the Arduino IDE uploads DCC-EX sketch, make sure the serial port switch is set to RxD3/TxD3 and dip switch pins 1-4 are ON and 5-7 are OFF.

If not already connected to power, connect the Arduino ATMega2560 + ESP8266 WiFi board by Either a USB cable, or for Standalone Operations (no USB) you can use a 7-9vdc power supply in the Arduino 2.1mm female barrel jack.

- When powered on through a USB cable, check the Arduino IDE Tools > Serial Monitor.
- It should show the ATMega2560 & ESP8266 WiFI communicating and assigning a xxx.xxx.x.xxx IP Address and Port 2560 to the new DCC++EX Command Station.
- You should see `++ Wifi Setup CONNECTED ++`

8. Connect your Phone as a Controller (Throttle)
===================================================

- If operating in STA mode, make sure your phone is connected to your local network (The same SSID and PASSWD you set in the config.h file)

- If Operating in AP mode, disconnect your phone/tablet from any other network and find the SSID for your Command Station in your network list. It will be "DCCEX_xxxxxx" where the x's are the last 6 characters of your WiFi chip's MAC address. Use the password "PASS_xxxxxx" where the x's are the same 6 characters.

.. NOTE:: You MUST either forget your local network or turn off "auto-reconnect" for that connection when using AP Mode. If you do not, your phone will disconnect from the DCCEX_xxxxxx network and connect to either a stronger connection, or one that has a connection to the internet.

- Start your Smart Phone (Andriod) Engine Driver App Or (Apple iOs) WiTHrottlle App and enter the IP address XXX.XXX.X.XXX assigned in the Arduino Serial Monitor above and Port 2560. For AP mode, it will usually be 192.168.4.1. For STA mode, it will be whatever your router assigned it.

If the Engine driver fails to connect the first time with the Command Station just press the Mega's red Reset button and try the IP/Port connection again.

You should have a direct Throttle connection to the DCC++EX 3.0.5+ Standalone WiFI Command Station Via your home router.

.. Note:: This is an Operations only config, the Engine Driver Power button only powers on the Main track, Not the Prog track. Function Keys are only local Default Function Settings, and are Not transferred from the JMRI Server Roster.

Diagnosing Problems
=============================

There a few things to try if you experience issues connecting or staying connected:

1. Connect a serial monitor to the USB port and watch the boot sequence. The code will check each serial port in order to see if anything responds to an "AT" command. You will see "OK" on a line where it finds your WiFi board on serial port 3 and failure if it does not.

2. Make sure the little slide switch is set to Tx/Rx 3

3. Make sure you forget your local network if using AP mode or set your home network to not automatically reconned.

4. Try changing the WiFi Channel in your config.h file to another channel and uploading the firmware again.

Going Further
==============

If you want to understand what is happening in more detail, such as what the different settings and firmware does, you may consult the following resources. 

Detailed tutorial and analysis by DCC-EX team member Neil McKechnie (NeilMc):
https://wakwak2popo.wordpress.com/2021/01/05/flashing-at-command-set-on-combined-mega-8266-board/

Fernando Koyanagi's excellent site including a video. Just be careful not to use his settings since he used an older version of the firmware: https://www.instructables.com/Arduino-MEGA-2560-With-WiFi-Built-in-ESP8266/

The Expressif ESP8266 page (The manufacturer of the chip): https://www.espressif.com/en/products/socs/esp8266/

Expressif detailed instructions on using the esptool
https://github.com/espressif/esptool#installation--dependencies

**Enjoy your New DCC++EX MEGA + WiFI On-Board Command Station!**

Suppliers
==========

 https://robotdyn.com/mega-wifi-r3-atmega2560-esp8266-flash-32mb-usb-ttl-ch340g-micro-usb.html

 https://www.amazon.com/SongHe-Mega2560-ATmega2560-ESP8266-Compatible/dp/B07THDDFSJ

 https://usa.banggood.com/Geekcreit-Mega-+WiFi-R3-Module-ATmega2560+ESP8266-32Mb-Memory-USB-TTL-CH340G-p-1205437.html?utm_source=googleshopping&utm_medium=cpc_organic&gmcCountry=US&utm_content=minha&utm_campaign=minha-usg-pc&currency=USD&cur_warehouse=CN&createTmp=1&utm_source=googleshopping&utm_medium=cpc_bgcs&utm_content=frank&utm_campaign=frank-ssc-usg-all-21LP-0112-01sale&ad_id=490995939324&gclid=Cj0KCQjwl9GCBhDvARIsAFunhsmmtqTacFhEVspUMw3shUU51ed2Akuh65HHr6uYDtXNEvkIbV9LgrwaAuZEEALw_wcB

 ***TODO:*** show link for external antenna and how to cut the trace to the circuit trace antenna on the board.

Commit message:

Frightrisk jun14 (#45)
* Add serial port switch to figures on Mega+WiFi install page

* Add collaps_navigation and navigation_depth to conf.py to fix expanding menus

* Add another buck converter power supply

* Update power supply page

* Add refs at the top of the power supplies page

docs/advanced-setup/supported-microcontrollers/wifi-mega.rst, after:

**************************
Mega+WiFi Configuration
**************************

.. image:: ../../_static/images/tinkerer.png
   :alt: Tinkerer Icon
   :scale: 50%
   :align: left

Tinkerer Level

|

A Operational Standalone WiFI DCC Command Station
==================================================

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/mega_wifi.png
   :alt: Mega WiFi
   :scale: 40%
   :align: center

   figure 1 - Mega+WiFi Board

This is a combination of a Mega Clone and an ESP8266 WiFi chip on one board. Our guess is that like many boards made in China, this is only made by one or two factories, but sold under several names. Search for WiFi+Mega or ATmega2560+ESP8266. Here are some of the brands. Links to some supplers are at the bottom of this page:

* Wemos
* RobotDyn
* Geekcreit


What You Will Need
-------------------

This is our tested and proven configuration

* DCC++EX 3.0.6 or greater
* ATMega2560 + ESP8266 WiFI - Combo Board
* Deek Robot L298P Standard Motor Shield (or other `approved motor controller <../../reference/hardware/motor-boards.html>`_)
* 12-16V DC Laptop power supply to the Motor Shield (16V provides 14.5Vdc to the tracks for HO Gauge)*
* 7-9V DC power supply to the ATmega boards with a female 2.1mm power barrel plug
* Android Smartphone with Engine Driver v2.28.123 or iOS Smarphone with WiThrottle
* USB-A male to Micro USB-B cable
* You will also need software provided in the links below and a toothpick or small jewellers screwdriver to be able to flip small switches.

\* NOTE: The L298 Based motor drivers like the Arduino Motor Shield have a 1.5-2V voltage drop. More efficient boards do not have this issue. Be careful in choosing the correct voltage so that you don't put too much voltage on the track and potentially damage your decoders.

What You Will Do
------------------

1. Download the ESP Files
2. Flash the ESP8266 chip
3. Edit your config file and Load the DCC++EX v3.0.6 to the Mega2560 chip
4. Setup your Throttle

.. Note:: This board uses a Micro-USB connector instead of the USB-B printer type connector used on regular Arduino Boards. It also uses the CH340G USB to Serial Driver chip instead of the FTDI on Arduino brands, so may require you to install a driver.

1. Plug in and test your Mega
------------------------------

Plug your board into your computer with a USB micro cable to see if it is recognized. These boards use a CH340 UART (The USB controller) instead of the ones on an Arduino brand Uno or Mega. If you have never plugged anything into your computer with this chip on it before, you are going to have to install a driver. On Windows, you can go to device manager and open the ports tree item. Look for "CH340" or "CH341".

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/ch340_driver.png
   :alt: CH340 Recognized
   :scale: 100%
   :align: center

   figure 2 - CH340 Recognized 

If you don't see the CH340 with the Mega plugged into USB, download and install the drivers from here:

http://www.wch-ic.com/downloads/CH341SER_ZIP.html

Once you can see your computer recognizes your board, **remember the port**. For a PC running windows, it will be something like "COM24" as in the picture above. For a Mac, it will be something like "/dev/cu.wchusbserial*****", and for Linux it will look like "/dev/ttyUSBx". Write it down. 

**Unplug the Mega.**

For more detail on how to install the correct CH340 drivers for your OS, you can see this `Sparkfun Tutorial <https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/how-to-install-ch340-drivers/all>`_

2. Download and install the flash download tool
------------------------------------------------

There are two tools you can use to flash the firmware, one is the **"Expressif Flash Download tool"** for Windows and the other is a Python script called **esptool** that will run on Windows, Mac, or Linux. Follow the path for the flash tool you choose.

Using the Flash Download Tool (Windows)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download the Flash Download Tool and the ESP8266_NONOS_AT_Bin_v1.7.4 firmware files by clicking on the buttons below. Unzip them wherever you like:

.. raw:: html

   <p><a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/files/esp8266/flash_download_tool_v3.8.5.zip">Flash Download tool</a></p>
  

.. raw:: html
  
   <p><a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/files/esp8266/ESP8266_NonOS_AT_Bin_V1.7.4.zip">ESP8266 Firmware Zipped</a></p>

|

Using esptool.py (Windows, Mac, Linux)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download the ESP8266_NONOS_AT_BIN_v1.7.4 firmware files by clicking the button below:

.. raw:: html
   
   <p><a class="dcclink" href="../../_static/files/esp8266/ESP8266_NonOS_AT_Bin_V1.7.4.zip">ESP8266 Firmware Zipped</a></p>

Install python if you don't already have it installed. This quick quide shows you how to check if you already have Python and how to install it if you don't:

https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide/Download

Once you have Python installed, you will need to install etptool.py. Open a command prompt and use pip (or Homebrew on a MacOS) to find and install it from the web:

.. code-block::

   $ pip install esptool

NOTE:with some Python installations that command may not work and you’ll receive an error. If that’s the case, try to install esptool.py with one of the following:

| pip3 install esptool
| python -m pip install esptool
| pip2 install esptool

When that is installed, install setup tools:

.. code-block::

   $ pip install setuptools

3. Set the switches on your Mega for flashing
-----------------------------------------------

With the Mega UNPLUGGED (no power connected!), you will set some switches. Use the following diagram to see the locations on the board. You can click on any picture to enlarge it.

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/mega_wifi1.png
   :alt: Mega WiFi Switch Locations
   :scale: 50%
   :align: center

   Figure 3 - Important Board Locations

Note that switch 8 is not connected to anything, you don't need to touch it. With a toothpick or jewelers screwdriver, very gently set your dip switches, it is easy to break them. Use this diagram to set your dip switches, **ON is up in this picture. Switches 5,6, and 7 are on**.

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/mega_wifi_sw_flash.png
   :alt: Switches in flash mode
   :scale: 30%
   :align: center

   Figure 4 - Switch Settings for Flashing

Use this image to set the serial port switch to **RXD3/TXD3**.

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/mega_wifi_sw_serial_cw.png
   :alt: Switch setting for Serial Port
   :scale: 100%
   :align: center

   Figure 5 - Switch Setting for Serial Port


Your board should be configured follows:

 -  set dip switches **5,6,7 ON** (1,2,3,4 OFF)
 -  set Serial Port (TX/RX) Slide Pin to **RXD3 & TXD3**
 -  Connect Mega+WiFI board to your computer with the USB cable
 -  press the **Mode button**

4. Flash the Firmware
------------------------

With the Flash Download Tool
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
 
Run the Flasher Tool 
"""""""""""""""""""""""

NOTE: It may take a few seconds to open while you see a black cmd window

- press [Developer Mode] button
- Press [ESP8266 Download Tool] button

.. image:: ../../_static/images/wifi/download_tool_dev_mode.jpg
   :alt: Flasher Tool Buttons
   :scale: 80%
   :align: left

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/download_tool_esp8266.jpg
   :alt: Flasher Tool Buttons 2
   :scale: 80%
   :align: left

   Figure 6 - Flash Tool Button Selections

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|


Setup the files and memory locations in the Flasher Tool
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

- Click on the each file button (the "..." buttons) and find the bin files you extracted.
- Follow Figure 6 and pay close attention setting up the Exact `*.bin` Files & locations 0xYYYYYYYY
- Make sure to check all the file checkboxes to the left of the filled in file names
- Set the EXACT settings using the radio buttons & baud rate settings: (26M, 40MHz, DIO, 16Mbit-C1, Your COM port selected, and 460800 baud).

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/flasher_1.png
   :alt: Flasher Settings Screen
   :scale: 80%
   :align: center

   Figure 7 - Flasher Settings Screen

.. NOTE:: These settings are for the ESP8266EX chip on the Mega+Wifi, you may need different settings to flash an ESP-01s, ESP12, etc.

- First press the **Erase button** and let the ESP erase the chip memory.   
- Then press the **Start button** and the bin files will flash (load) onto the ESP-WiFi chip

After flashing, the ESP8266 Log will show it uploaded them all successfully and it closes the port.

- Disconnect the USB cable.

Skip ahead to :ref:`3. Set the switches for run/sketch mode`

With esptool.py
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Unzip the firmware files and put them in a folder so that they are easy to find. Go to a command prompt (Windows Key+R then type "cmd" and click OK, or run "terminal" on MacOS) and navigate to the folder where you unzipped the firmware files. Execute the full command below from the prompt. Esptool.py should be in your path and will automatically find your ESP8266 if it is connected. If it does not find your ESP, see the examples for how to select the port.


``esptool.py write_flash --flash_mode dio --flash_size 2MB-c1 0x0 boot_v1.7.bin 0x01000 at/1024+1024/user1.2048.new.5.bin 0x1fb000 blank.bin 0x1fc000 esp_init_data_default_v08.bin 0xfe000 blank.bin 0x1fe000 blank.bin``


Examples with port specified: 

esptool.py -p /dev/ttyUSB0 write_flash --flash_mode dio --flash_size 2MB-c1 0x0 boot_v1.7.bin 0x01000 at/1023+1024/user1.2048.new.5.bin 0x1fc000 esp_init_data_default_v08.bin 0xfe000 blank.bin 0x1fe000 blank.bin

esptool.exe -p COM5 --baud 115200 write_flash --flash_size 2MB-c1 0x0 boot_v1.7.bin 0x01000 at/1024+1024/user1.2048.new.5.bin 0x1fb000 blank.bin 0x1fc000 esp_init_data_default_v08.bin 0xfe000 blank.bin 0x1fe000 blank.bin

If there is an error, press and hold the mode button, then press and release the reset button while still holding down the mode button. Press enter to send the esptool command and let go of the mode button.



3. Set the switches for run/sketch mode
==========================================

With the power disconnected from the Mega, set the switches back to the upload/run mode
- dip switches 5,6,7 OFF and 1,2,3,4 ON
- (Leave the TX/RX slide Pin on RxD3 TxD3)
- re-connect the USB cable

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/wifi/mega_wifi_sw_run.png
   :alt: Switches in flash mode
   :scale: 30%
   :align: center

   Figure 8 - Switch Settings for sketch load/run

4. Decide if you want AP Mode or Station Mode
==============================================

AP Mode (the default) makes the Command Station an Access Point. That is a direct connection from your Throttle (Phone) to the CS as a Local Intranet. There is no Internet access.  Station Mode connects the CS to your local WiFi Router With Internet access. You then have to know the IP address your router assigns to the CS so your Throttles can find it on your network.

If you choose to use AP mode, there is nothing you need to do. Just make sure you select the network checkbox in the installer or rename the config.example.h file to config.h and install DCC++EX. Go directly to setp 5.

If you are going to want to connect to your WiFi router, you just need to enter your login information. Take a look at the :ref:`Short Version of Network Setup` below before proceeding to step 5. But keep in mind, you can always install, make changes, and install again.


5. Download and Configure the DCC++EX Command Station Software
================================================================

Download and install DCC++EX from by using the Automated exInstaller or using the Arduino IDE by choosing one of the links below.

`How to install using the installer <../../get-started/installer.html>`_

`How to install using the Arduino IDE <../../get-started/arduino-ide.html>`_

`I know what I'm doing, just point me to the downloads page! <../../download/commandstation.html>`_

Short Version of Network Setup
===============================

`Long/Detailed Network Setup HERE <../../advanced-setup/wifi-config.html>`_

All settings are in the config.h file in your CommandStation-EX folder. If you don't have a config.h, rename config.example.h to config.h.

**First, make sure your dip switches are set with 1,2,3,4 ON and 5,6,7 OFF (8 doesn't matter)**

Setting up in Access Point AP Mode
-----------------------------------

- If using the installer, just check the WiFi check box and leave SSID and password alone
  
- If using the Arduino IDE,Make sure you didn't put "//" in front of the `#define ENABLE_WIFI true` line in your config.h file
- No additional changes required, Leave SSID & Passwd alone
- Your ESP-Wifi chip will assign a SSID as DCCEX_xxxxxx and PASS_xxxxxx, Where xxxxxx is the last 6 characters of your ESP8266 MAC Address
- Upload the software to your Mega+WiFi (see Compile and Re-upload below)

Setting up WiFi in Station (STA) Mode with Router
--------------------------------------------------

- This mode is also sometimes called "Client" mode

- If using the installer, select the WiFi Checkbox and enter the name (SSID) of your network and the password to log into it.

- If using the Arduino IDE open the CommandStation-EX.ino file in the Arduino IDE program then
- Open, then Edit & change the new config.h file to your local or home Router's SSID & Password.
  
  - Change `#define WIFI_SSID "Your network name"` to the name of your local network.
  - Change `#define WIFI_PASSWORD "Your network passwd"` to the password for your network.

6. Compile and Re-upload DCC-EX to the Arduino
===============================================

- If using the Arduino IDE, select ATMega2560 board from the "tools, boards" menu.
- Select the correct COM port that sees your Mega and set baud rate to 115200
- Click the upload button (the arrow pointing to the right near the checkmark in the upper left of the program window)

7. Operate Your Command Station
================================

After the Arduino IDE uploads DCC-EX sketch, make sure the serial port switch is set to RxD3/TxD3 and dip switch pins 1-4 are ON and 5-7 are OFF.

If not already connected to power, connect the Arduino ATMega2560 + ESP8266 WiFi board by Either a USB cable, or for Standalone Operations (no USB) you can use a 7-9vdc power supply in the Arduino 2.1mm female barrel jack.

- When powered on through a USB cable, check the Arduino IDE Tools > Serial Monitor.
- It should show the ATMega2560 & ESP8266 WiFI communicating and assigning a xxx.xxx.x.xxx IP Address and Port 2560 to the new DCC++EX Command Station.
- You should see `++ Wifi Setup CONNECTED ++`

8. Connect your Phone as a Controller (Throttle)
===================================================

- If operating in STA mode, make sure your phone is connected to your local network (The same SSID and PASSWD you set in the config.h file)

- If Operating in AP mode, disconnect your phone/tablet from any other network and find the SSID for your Command Station in your network list. It will be "DCCEX_xxxxxx" where the x's are the last 6 characters of your WiFi chip's MAC address. Use the password "PASS_xxxxxx" where the x's are the same 6 characters.

.. NOTE:: You MUST either forget your local network or turn off "auto-reconnect" for that connection when using AP Mode. If you do not, your phone will disconnect from the DCCEX_xxxxxx network and connect to either a stronger connection, or one that has a connection to the internet.

- Start your Smart Phone (Andriod) Engine Driver App Or (Apple iOs) WiTHrottlle App and enter the IP address XXX.XXX.X.XXX assigned in the Arduino Serial Monitor above and Port 2560. For AP mode, it will usually be 192.168.4.1. For STA mode, it will be whatever your router assigned it.

If the Engine driver fails to connect the first time with the Command Station just press the Mega's red Reset button and try the IP/Port connection again.

You should have a direct Throttle connection to the DCC++EX 3.0.5+ Standalone WiFI Command Station Via your home router.

.. Note:: This is an Operations only config, the Engine Driver Power button only powers on the Main track, Not the Prog track. Function Keys are only local Default Function Settings, and are Not transferred from the JMRI Server Roster.

Diagnosing Problems
=============================

There a few things to try if you experience issues connecting or staying connected:

1. Connect a serial monitor to the USB port and watch the boot sequence. The code will check each serial port in order to see if anything responds to an "AT" command. You will see "OK" on a line where it finds your WiFi board on serial port 3 and failure if it does not.

2. Make sure the little slide switch is set to Tx/Rx 3

3. Make sure you forget your local network if using AP mode or set your home network to not automatically reconned.

4. Try changing the WiFi Channel in your config.h file to another channel and uploading the firmware again.

Going Further
==============

If you want to understand what is happening in more detail, such as what the different settings and firmware does, you may consult the following resources. 

Detailed tutorial and analysis by DCC-EX team member Neil McKechnie (NeilMc):
https://wakwak2popo.wordpress.com/2021/01/05/flashing-at-command-set-on-combined-mega-8266-board/

Fernando Koyanagi's excellent site including a video. Just be careful not to use his settings since he used an older version of the firmware: https://www.instructables.com/Arduino-MEGA-2560-With-WiFi-Built-in-ESP8266/

The Expressif ESP8266 page (The manufacturer of the chip): https://www.espressif.com/en/products/socs/esp8266/

Expressif detailed instructions on using the esptool
https://github.com/espressif/esptool#installation--dependencies

**Enjoy your New DCC++EX MEGA + WiFI On-Board Command Station!**

Suppliers
==========

 https://robotdyn.com/mega-wifi-r3-atmega2560-esp8266-flash-32mb-usb-ttl-ch340g-micro-usb.html

 https://www.amazon.com/SongHe-Mega2560-ATmega2560-ESP8266-Compatible/dp/B07THDDFSJ

 https://usa.banggood.com/Geekcreit-Mega-+WiFi-R3-Module-ATmega2560+ESP8266-32Mb-Memory-USB-TTL-CH340G-p-1205437.html?utm_source=googleshopping&utm_medium=cpc_organic&gmcCountry=US&utm_content=minha&utm_campaign=minha-usg-pc&currency=USD&cur_warehouse=CN&createTmp=1&utm_source=googleshopping&utm_medium=cpc_bgcs&utm_content=frank&utm_campaign=frank-ssc-usg-all-21LP-0112-01sale&ad_id=490995939324&gclid=Cj0KCQjwl9GCBhDvARIsAFunhsmmtqTacFhEVspUMw3shUU51ed2Akuh65HHr6uYDtXNEvkIbV9LgrwaAuZEEALw_wcB

 ***TODO:*** show link for external antenna and how to cut the trace to the circuit trace antenna on the board.
