docs/ex-installer/index.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :keywords: EX-CommandStation Command Station EX-Installer

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l1.rst
|EX-I-LOGO|

************
EX-Installer
************

|tinkerer| |engineer|

This page describes all the feature and options of the |EX-I|.  If you identify as an a |conductor-text| and have installed only the recommended hardware we suggest that you look at the simplified instructions on the :doc:`/ex-commandstation/get-started/installer` page.

----

Once you have assembled your |EX-CS| hardware you need to load our software onto it make is usable.  

To make it as simple as possible we have created the |EX-I| app.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    installing
    testing

----

Looking for some help with EX-Installer?
========================================

To raise a bug report, feature request, support request, or submit Beta test results, feel free to use our handy GitHub templates accessible by clicking this button:

|githublink-ex-installer-button|

.. tip:: 

  Keep an eye out for the same button at the top of the other pages.

Commit message:

Add installer warning Linux/macOS

docs/ex-installer/index.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :keywords: EX-CommandStation Command Station EX-Installer

.. include:: /include/include.rst
.. include:: /include/include-l1.rst
|EX-I-LOGO|

************
EX-Installer
************

|tinkerer| |engineer|

.. warning:: 

  Please be advised that our installer currently does not work reliably on Linux or macOS which is a known issue.

  For Linux users we recommend using the Arduino IDE. You can find instructions on the :doc:`/ex-commandstation/advanced-setup/installation-options/arduino-ide` page.

  We hope to have a new version available soon.

This page describes all the feature and options of the |EX-I|.  If you identify as an a |conductor-text| and have installed only the recommended hardware we suggest that you look at the simplified instructions on the :doc:`/ex-commandstation/get-started/installer` page.

----

Once you have assembled your |EX-CS| hardware you need to load our software onto it make is usable.  

To make it as simple as possible we have created the |EX-I| app.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    installing
    testing

----

Looking for some help with EX-Installer?
========================================

To raise a bug report, feature request, support request, or submit Beta test results, feel free to use our handy GitHub templates accessible by clicking this button:

|githublink-ex-installer-button|

.. tip:: 

  Keep an eye out for the same button at the top of the other pages.
