docs/contributing/website.rst, before:

Documentation
=============

Thank you for your offer to help. Here's some instructions for how to contribute. You might want to check in with
an admin from the DCC++ EX team before working on documentation changes to identify current needs.

Submission Procedure
--------------------

We will assume that you have an appropriate text editor and Git installed on your machine. We recommend the free _Visual Studio Code IDE (VSC)_ and _GitHub Desktop_ or _Git Bash_.

1. Clone the [dcc-ex.github.io](https://github.com/DCC-EX/dcc-ex.github.io/tree/sphinx) repository, to your local machine. Make sure you're on the sphinx branch. ([Cloning a repository in GitHub](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository))

2. Install _Python 3.8.x_ (which also installs pip) then use pip to install the required packages ```pip install sphinx sphinx_rtd_theme sphinxcontrib-spelling```

3. Using Git Bash, go to the "website" folder and make a branch using GitHub desktop or this command: ```git checkout -b your-branch-name```

4. Open VSC and edit the files in the ```dcc-ex.github.io/docs``` folder. Save, then Preview your changes by running ```make github``` from the root of the ```dcc-ex.github.io``` folder. *This must be done from cmd.exe in windows, not powershell* Then go to the directory ```dcc-ex.github.io/docs/build/html``` and open ```index.html``` in Chrome or another browser. Note that since 11/23/2020, this is just a local preview - when you push your changes GitHub will automatically rebuild your website.

5. Use ```git add``` and ```git commit -m "MY CHANGE DESCRIPTION"``` often to save changes. If you're using GitHub desktop these are combined in the commit button.

6. Push it to GitHub: ```git push origin {your-name}-changes```

7. Go to GitHub and issue a pull request for your branch to be pulled into the sphinx branch. Once it's merged in by one of the admins, your changes will go live!

*Work in progress*

Commit message:

Frightrisk may19 (#39)
* Add submenus in reference section

* Add hardware index.rst file

* Add clean option to make.bat

* Add index file in documents section and add to main index

* work on submenus to motor board page

* Add files for documents section

* Move motor boards to supported motor boards

* Add microcontrollers to submenu

* Add DCCEX Commands zip file

* Move documents and schematics to under reference

* Add website contributing page and dcc inspector

* add index page for document and schematic downloads

* rename dcc-inspector-ex page

* add index file for downloads in references

* Add another index file

* Add images and files to reference download

* Rename images as thumbnails

* rework documents

* move things to downloads and delete documents

* finishing touches on new menu structure

* Add JMRI python script download to display EX command reference

* add sniffer links

docs/contributing/website.rst, after:

***************
Documentation
***************

Thank you for your offer to help. Here's some instructions for how to contribute. You might want to check in with an admin from the DCC++ EX team before working on documentation changes to identify current needs.

Submission Procedure
======================

We will assume that you have an appropriate text editor and Git installed on your machine. We recommend the free `Visual Studio Code IDE (VSC) <https://code.visualstudio.com/>`_ and `GitHub Desktop <https://desktop.github.com/>`_ or `Git Bash (the command line interface in Git) <https://git-scm.com/downloads>`_.

1. Clone the `dcc-ex.github.io <https://github.com/DCC-EX/dcc-ex.github.io/tree/sphinx>`_Support repository, to your local machine. Make sure you're on the sphinx branch. (`Cloning a repository in GitHub <https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository>`_)

2. Install Python 3.8. (which also installs pip) then use pip to install the required packages ```pip install sphinx sphinx_rtd_theme sphinxcontrib-spelling```

3. Using Git Bash, go to the "website" folder and make a branch using GitHub desktop or this command: ```git checkout -b your-branch-name```

4. Open VSC and edit the files in the ```dcc-ex.github.io/docs``` folder. Save, then Preview your changes by running ```make github``` from the root of the ```dcc-ex.github.io``` folder. *This must be done from cmd.exe in windows, not powershell* Then go to the directory ```dcc-ex.github.io/docs/build/html``` and open ```index.html``` in Chrome or another browser. Note that since 11/23/2020, this is just a local preview - when you push your changes GitHub will automatically rebuild your website.

5. Use ```git add``` and ```git commit -m "MY CHANGE DESCRIPTION"``` often to save changes. If you're using GitHub desktop these are combined in the commit button.

6. Push it to GitHub: ```git push origin {your-name}-changes```

7. Go to GitHub and issue a pull request for your branch to be pulled into the sphinx branch. Once it's merged in by one of the admins, your changes will go live!

Standards
==========

* Main Headings have asterisks above and below them
* Subheadings are underlined with equals signals
* The next level is underlines with underscores
* And and the next level is underlines with carets
* And the last one we use is underlined with tildes

All heading underlines and overlines must be at least as long at the text of the heading

*Work in progress*
